================================================================================
CODEX DOCUMENTATION - Full Content Extraction
Extracted from 22 URLs on learn.chatgpt.com
================================================================================


──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
<!-- source: https://learn.chatgpt.com/docs/quickstart -->
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Where to use ChatGPT
Use ChatGPT across different surfaces, including the ChatGPT desktop app and ChatGPT on the web . Choose
the option that fits your work.
Desktop app Work across projects, local files, and long-running tasks. Recommended
Web Work on complex tasks uninterrupted in the cloud. No installation required
If you’re a developer and want to use Codex in your terminal or code editor,
try Codex CLI or the Codex IDE extension .

Setup
Choose an option
The ChatGPT desktop app is available for Windows and macOS. Use it for projects,
local files, longer tasks, and quick chats.

-
Install the ChatGPT desktop app
Choose the version for your operating system:

-
Open the ChatGPT desktop app and sign in
Open the app, then sign in with your ChatGPT account.
You may also use Codex with an API key. Some features might not be available .

-
Select where ChatGPT should work
Start a chat, create a project, or open a folder. ChatGPT can read and modify
files in the folder you choose. Learn more about chats and projects .

-
Start a chat

- For research, analysis, or deliverables such as documents, presentations,
spreadsheets, and Sites, select ChatGPT , then select Work from the mode
toggle at the top of the new chat page, above the composer.

- For software development with codebase context and developer tools, select Codex from the ChatGPT dropdown.

- For a quick question or chat, select ChatGPT , then select Chat from the mode toggle at the top of the new chat page, above the composer. In
Codex, point to New chat , then select the Quick chat icon on its right.
Learn more about using ChatGPT .

-
Send your first message
Describe your goal and add any files or context ChatGPT needs. Try an example:
Explore more use cases .
ChatGPT is available on the web and includes Chat mode and Work mode.

-
Open ChatGPT and sign in
Go to chatgpt.com and sign in with your ChatGPT account.

-
Start a chat

- Select Chat to ask questions, explore ideas, and work through a topic
conversationally.

- Select Work to research, analyze information, and create documents,
presentations, spreadsheets, Sites, or other finished work.
Learn more about using ChatGPT .

-
Select where ChatGPT should work
Start a chat or select a project. Projects can include chats, files, and instructions.

-
Send your first message
Describe your goal and add any files or context ChatGPT needs. Try an example:

Next steps
Learn more about the ChatGPT desktop app
Use the ChatGPT desktop app to work with your local projects.
Import your setup
Bring supported setup, projects, and recent work into ChatGPT.


──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
<!-- source: https://learn.chatgpt.com/docs/prompting -->
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Prompting overview
Prompting is how you tell ChatGPT what you want to know, make, or change. A prompt
can be a question, an instruction, or a goal. You don’t need technical syntax or
a rigid formula. Start in your own words, review the response, and use follow-up
messages to shape the result.
A short prompt is often enough. For larger or more important tasks, include the
parts that matter:

- Goal: What should ChatGPT do?

- Context: What information or sources will help?

- Output: What format, length, or level of detail do you need?

- Boundaries: What must stay unchanged? What should ChatGPT avoid or check
with you before it acts?
Use only the parts that help. You don’t need to fill in every item or follow a
required format.

Describe the result you need
Start with the result, not a detailed list of steps. Include the audience or
format when those details change what ChatGPT should produce.
Turn these meeting notes into a short update for the project team. Put the decisions and next steps first.
This prompt explains what to create and who will read it. Describe a process when
the process itself matters. Otherwise, leave ChatGPT room to search, compare
information, and adjust its approach.

Add useful context
Share the information that could change the result. Add only the sources that
matter, and explain what ChatGPT should take from each one.

- Attach documents, spreadsheets, presentations, or PDF files when you want
ChatGPT to summarize, compare, transform, or create files for review .

- Add a screenshot, diagram, or other image input when the
task depends on visual context. Point out the area that matters instead of
relying on the image alone.

- Ask ChatGPT to use web search when the answer depends on
current information, and ask for sources when you need to check the result.

- Use a project when related chats should share files,
sources, or a local folder.

Use connected sources
When ChatGPT has access to connected sources, name where it should look and what
it should find. You don’t need to describe every search it should run.
Use the latest project plan in Drive and relevant decisions and updates from the project's Slack channel to prepare a status update.
Connected sources require the matching plugin, and availability can depend on
your plan and workspace settings.

Use plugins
Plugins give ChatGPT reusable instructions and connections to tools such as
Google Drive, Gmail, Slack, and GitHub. Ask for the result you need and let
ChatGPT choose from the tools available to it. To choose a specific plugin, type @ in the composer.
Learn about plugins
Find, install, and use plugins in ChatGPT.

Personalize ChatGPT
Put preferences that should apply across chats in Settings > Personalization as custom instructions. Keep details that matter only to the current chat in the
prompt.
Review personalization settings
Set a default personality, custom instructions, and other app preferences.

Set boundaries that prevent real problems
Boundaries are the few instructions ChatGPT needs to avoid creating extra work
or taking an action you didn’t intend. Add one when changing the wrong detail
would make the result unusable, or when you want to review something before it
affects other people.

- Keep the approved dates and budget figures unchanged.

- Use only the supplied sources. Flag missing information instead of guessing.

- Keep recommendations within the stated budget.

- Prepare the message as a draft. Don’t send it.
Focus on the one or two boundaries that matter most. You don’t need to control
every step ChatGPT takes.

Make the result ready to use
Tell ChatGPT how you plan to use the result. This helps it choose the right
length, level of detail, and organization.

- Make this a one-page summary a director can scan before the meeting. Put the
decision and next steps first.

- Turn these notes into a follow-up email with the decisions, owners, and due
dates.

- Create a clear table of planned versus actual spending and highlight any
difference over 10%.
For important work, ask ChatGPT for a final check, such as confirming every
action item has an owner and due date or flagging information it couldn’t
verify. Then review the result yourself before you use or share it.

Improve the result with follow-up messages
Your first prompt doesn’t need to be perfect. Review the result, then ask for
the specific change you want.
Make the opening more direct, keep the evidence, and move the recommendation above the background section.
You can add a missing source, correct the direction, ask for another option, or
change the level of detail without starting over.

Steering and queuing
When Codex is already working, you can send another message without waiting for
the current run to finish:

- Steer adds the message to the current run. Use it to change direction, add
a missing detail, or share new information.

- Queue saves the message for the next run. Use it for a follow-up that should
wait until the current work finishes.
In the ChatGPT desktop app, choose the default under Settings > General > Follow-up behavior .
Queued messages appear above the composer, where you can edit, reorder, send, or
delete them. The setting also shows the shortcut for using the other behavior
for one message without changing your default.
In Codex CLI, press Enter while Codex is working to steer the current
turn, or press Tab to queue the message for the next turn. See the interactive shortcuts for details.

Put the pieces together
For a project update that uses connected sources, a complete prompt might look
like this:
Prepare a one-page project status update for Monday's leadership meeting. Use the latest project plan in Drive and relevant decisions and updates from the project's Slack channel. Lead with the decisions leadership needs to make and the next steps. Summarize progress, risks, owners, and due dates. Keep approved dates and budget figures unchanged. Flag any conflicting or missing information, and don't send or publish anything. Before you finish, check that every next step has an owner and due date.
This prompt covers the Goal , Context , Output , and Boundaries , then
asks for a final check without spelling out every step.

Use voice dictation
In the ChatGPT desktop app, hold Ctrl + M while the composer is
visible, then start talking. ChatGPT transcribes your speech into the composer so
you can review and edit it before sending the prompt.

Prompting examples for Chat
Use Chat for questions, ideas, drafts, and everyday decisions. Start with the
outcome you want, then add detail only when it changes the answer.

Understand a topic
Explain how compound interest works for someone who has never invested. Use one concrete example and define any financial terms you introduce.

Draft and refine writing
Draft a friendly email declining this invitation because I will be traveling. Keep it under 120 words and leave the door open for a future event.

Compare options
Compare these two phone plans for one person who travels internationally twice a year. Show the important differences in a table, then recommend one and explain the tradeoff.

Make a practical plan
Plan five weekday dinners that take less than 30 minutes. Avoid peanuts, reuse ingredients across meals, and finish with one consolidated shopping list.

Prompting in Work mode
Use Chat mode for quick questions, short rewrites, brainstorming, and lightweight
drafts. Use Work mode for tasks that draw on different sources or tools, involve a
sequence of steps, make changes, or produce a larger deliverable.
In Work mode, describe the result you need, provide the source material, name
the audience, and explain how you’ll review the work. Ask ChatGPT to plan,
gather the needed information, create files, and check them before it finishes.

Use Work mode efficiently
Work mode is useful for time-consuming or recurring tasks, or for finished files you
can reuse. A task that uses more credits can still be worthwhile if it saves
time, improves quality, or helps you make an important decision.
Start with one result you can review:

- Include only relevant sources and limit the date range when appropriate.

- Define the audience, output format, and desired length.

- Separate required work from optional improvements or polish.

- Ask for a plan when the approach matters. Require your approval before ChatGPT
sends, publishes, or changes information other people rely on.

- Narrow or stop the task if it starts doing work you no longer need.
Review the first result, refine the instructions, and reuse the workflow when
it works.

Turn source material into finished files
Use the attached quarterly reports to create a leadership brief and a six-slide presentation. The audience is the executive team. Lead with the three decisions they need to make, distinguish reported facts from your analysis, cite each number to its source file, and check that the brief and slides agree before you finish.

Research a decision
Research three customer-support platforms for a 50-person company. Compare pricing, security, integrations, and migration effort using current sources. Deliver a recommendation memo with links, assumptions, and the questions we should answer before signing a contract.

Coordinate a launch
Create a launch plan for the attached product brief. Include the timeline, owners, dependencies, risks, announcement draft, customer FAQ, and a checklist for launch day. Flag any missing decisions before producing the final files.
For recurring work, first refine the prompt in a normal chat. After the output is
reliable, schedule a task inside that chat .
Create a standalone scheduled task instead when each scheduled run should start
a new chat.

Prompting Codex
Use Codex when you want ChatGPT to work with code, a codebase, or developer tools.
A useful Codex prompt names the behavior you want, points to the relevant code or
reproduction steps, preserves important constraints, and says how to verify the
change.
For a multi-step task, enter /plan in the app composer when you want Codex to
investigate and propose an approach before editing. When Goal mode is available, use /goal after the plan to set a persistent goal. See the app slash
commands for the current command list.

How to read these examples
Each workflow includes:

- When to use it and which Codex surface fits best (IDE, CLI, or cloud).

- Steps with example user prompts.

- Context notes : what Codex automatically sees vs what you should attach.

- Verification : how to check the output.
Note: The IDE extension automatically includes your open files as context. In the CLI, mention paths explicitly, or attach files with /mention and @ path autocomplete.
Codex runs local commands inside a sandbox that limits file and network access. If a task needs to cross that boundary,
Codex follows your approval policy before continuing.

Explain a codebase
Use this when you are onboarding, inheriting a service, or trying to reason about a protocol, data model, or request flow.

IDE extension workflow (fastest for local exploration)

- Open the most relevant files.

- Select the code you care about (optional but recommended).

- Prompt Codex:
Explain how the request flows through the selected code. Include: - a short summary of the responsibilities of each module involved - what data is validated and where - one or two "gotchas" to watch for when changing this
Verification:

- Ask for a diagram or checklist you can verify:
Summarize the request flow as a numbered list of steps. Then list the files involved.

CLI workflow (good when you want a transcript + shell commands)

- Start an interactive session:
codex

- Attach the files (optional) and prompt:
I need to understand the protocol used by this service. Read @foo.ts @schema.ts and explain the schema and request/response flow. Focus on required vs optional fields and backward compatibility rules.
Context notes:

- You can use @ in the composer to insert file paths from the workspace, or /mention to attach a specific file.

Fix a bug
Use this when you have a failing behavior you can reproduce locally.

CLI workflow (tight loop with reproduction and verification)

- Start Codex at the repo root:
codex

- Give Codex a reproduction recipe, plus the file(s) you suspect:
Bug: Clicking "Save" on the settings screen sometimes shows "Saved" but doesn't persist the change. Repro: 1) Start the app: npm run dev 2) Go to /settings 3) Toggle "Enable alerts" 4) Click Save 5) Refresh the page: the toggle resets Constraints: - Do not change the API shape. - Keep the fix minimal and add a regression test if feasible. Start by reproducing the bug locally, then propose a patch and run checks.
Context notes:

- Supplied by you: the repro steps and constraints (these matter more than a high-level description).

- Supplied by Codex: command output, discovered call sites, and any stack traces it triggers.
Verification:

- Codex should re-run the repro steps after the fix.

- If you have a standard check pipeline, ask it to run it:
After the fix, run lint + the smallest relevant test suite. Report the commands and results.

IDE extension workflow

- Open the file where you think the bug lives, plus its nearest caller.

- Prompt Codex:
Find the bug causing "Saved" to show without persisting changes. After proposing the fix, tell me how to verify it in the UI.

Write a test
Use this when you want to define the exact scope to test.

IDE extension workflow (selection-based)

- Open the file with the function.

- Select the lines that define the function. Choose “Add to Codex Thread” from command palette to add these lines to the context.

- Prompt Codex:
Write a unit test for this function. Follow conventions used in other tests.
Context notes:

- Supplied by “Add to Codex Thread” command: the selected lines (this is the “line number” scope), plus open files.

CLI workflow (path + line range described in prompt)

- Start Codex:
codex

- Prompt with a function name:
Add a test for the invert_list function in @transform.ts. Cover the happy path plus edge cases.

Prototype from a screenshot
Use this when you want to turn a design mock, screenshot, or UI reference into a working prototype.

CLI workflow (image + prompt)

- Save your screenshot locally (for example ./specs/ui.png ).

- Run Codex:
codex

- Drag the image file into the terminal to attach it to the prompt.

- Follow up with constraints and structure:
Create a new dashboard based on this image. Constraints: - Use react, vite, and tailwind. Write the code in typescript. - Match spacing, typography, and layout as closely as possible. Outputs: - A new route/page that renders the UI - Any small components needed - README.md with instructions to run it locally
Context notes:

- The image provides visual requirements, but you still need to specify the implementation constraints (framework, routing, component style).

- Include behavior the image doesn’t show in text, such as hover states, validation rules, or keyboard interactions.
Verification:

- Ask Codex to run the dev server (if allowed) and tell you exactly where to look:
Start the dev server and tell me the local URL/route to view the prototype.

IDE extension workflow (image + existing files)

- Attach the image in the Codex chat (drag-and-drop or paste).

- Prompt Codex:
Create a new settings page. Use the attached screenshot as the target UI. Follow design and visual patterns from other files in this project.

Iterate on UI with live updates
Use this when you want a tight “design → tweak → refresh → tweak” loop while Codex edits code.

CLI workflow (run Vite, then iterate with small prompts)

- Start Codex:
codex

- Start the dev server in a separate terminal window:
npm run dev

- Prompt Codex to make changes:
Propose 2-3 styling improvements for the landing page.

- Pick a direction and iterate with small, specific prompts:
Go with option 2. Change only the header: - make the typography more editorial - increase whitespace - ensure it still looks good on mobile

- Repeat with focused requests:
Next iteration: reduce visual noise. Keep the layout, but simplify colors and remove any redundant borders.
Verification:

- Review changes in the browser as Codex updates the code.

- Commit changes that you like and revert those that you don’t.

- If you revert or change an edit, tell Codex so it doesn’t overwrite your edit when it works on the next prompt.

Delegate refactor to the cloud
Use this when you want to design an approach with local context, then delegate the long implementation to a cloud chat that can run in parallel.

Local planning (IDE)

- Make sure your current work is committed or at least stashed so you can compare changes cleanly.

- Ask Codex to produce a refactor plan. If you have the $plan skill available, invoke it explicitly:
$plan We need to refactor the auth subsystem to: - split responsibilities (token parsing vs session loading vs permissions) - reduce circular imports - improve testability Constraints: - No user-visible behavior changes - Keep public APIs stable - Include a step-by-step migration plan

- Review the plan and negotiate changes:
Revise the plan to: - specify exactly which files move in each milestone - include a rollback strategy
Context notes:

- Planning works best when Codex can scan the current code locally (entrypoints, module boundaries, dependency graph hints).

Cloud delegation (IDE → Cloud)

- If you haven’t already done so, set up a Codex cloud environment .

- Click on the cloud icon beneath the prompt composer and select your cloud environment.

- When you enter the next prompt, Codex creates a new chat in the cloud that carries over the existing chat context (including the plan and any local source changes).
Implement Milestone 1 from the plan.

- Review the cloud diff, iterate if needed.

- Create a PR directly from the cloud or pull changes locally to test and finish up.

- Iterate on additional milestones of the plan.
Tasks delegated to the cloud run in isolated environments. Internet access is
off during the agent phase unless you enable it for the environment. Learn more
about cloud internet access .

Do a local code review
Use this when you want a second set of eyes before committing or creating a PR.

CLI workflow (review your working tree)

- Start Codex:
codex

- Run the review command:
/review

- Optional: provide custom focus instructions:
/review Focus on edge cases and security issues
Verification:

- Apply fixes based on review feedback, then rerun /review to confirm you resolved the issues.

Review a GitHub pull request
Use this when you want review feedback without pulling the branch locally.
Before you can use this, enable Codex Code review on your repository. See Code review .

GitHub workflow (comment-driven)

- Open the pull request on GitHub.

- Leave a comment that tags Codex with explicit focus areas:
@codex review

- Optional: Provide more explicit instructions.
@codex review for security vulnerabilities and security concerns

Update documentation
Use this when you need an accurate, clear documentation change.

IDE or CLI workflow (local edits + local validation)

- Identify the doc file(s) to change and open them (IDE) or @ mention them (IDE or CLI).

- Prompt Codex with scope and validation requirements:
Update the "advanced features" documentation to provide authentication troubleshooting guidance. Verify that all links are valid.

- After Codex drafts the changes, review the documentation and iterate as needed.
Verification:

- Read the rendered page.


──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
<!-- source: https://learn.chatgpt.com/docs/codex/cli -->
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Codex CLI

Inspect, edit, and run code from your terminal
Inspect code, make changes, run commands, and automate repeatable work without leaving your terminal.
Install Codex
CLI reference
$ codex
╭──────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│ >_ OpenAI Codex │
│ │
│ model: gpt-5.6-sol medium /model to change │
│ directory: ~/code │
╰──────────────────────────────────────────────────╯

To get started, describe a task or try one of these commands: /init - create an AGENTS.md file with instructions for Codex /status - show current session configuration /permissions - choose what Codex is allowed to do /model - choose what model and reasoning effort to use /review - review any changes and find issues
› Refactor the Dashboard component to React Hooks
100% context left · ? for shortcuts
01

Work against your local repository
Let Codex inspect files, make edits, and run the tools already installed on your machine.
02

Stay in control
Choose the model, reasoning effort, permissions, and commands that fit the task.
03

Compose with scripts and CI
Use Codex interactively or call codex exec from repeatable workflows and pipelines.
Quickstart

Get started with Codex CLI
Install Codex, sign in, and run your first task from a project directory.

- 1

Install Codex

- 2

Run Codex and sign in
Open a project directory and run codex . The first time you run Codex, choose Sign in with ChatGPT or another available sign-in method.
Review authentication options

- 3

Start your first task
Describe what you want to accomplish. For example, ask Codex to explain
the project, make a focused change, or help debug an issue.
Tell me about this project
Create Git checkpoints before and after a task so you can revert changes.
See the best practices .

See what Codex CLI can do
Use one focused terminal loop for interactive work, automation, review, and delegation.
01

Keep the coding loop in your terminal
Start Codex in a repository to explore unfamiliar code, plan a change, edit files, and run your local development tools. Steer the active turn, inspect commands and diffs as they appear, and keep follow-up work in the same session.
Learn more
>_ OpenAI Codex ( v0.143.0 )
model: gpt-5.6-sol medium /model to change directory: ~/code/my-app
02

Use skills and plugins
Package repeatable instructions as skills, then add plugins to connect Codex to your team's tools and data without leaving the CLI.
Learn more
zsh — plugins
Plugins
Browse plugins from available marketplaces.
Installed 17 of 1751 available plugins.
[All Plugins] Installed (17) OpenAI Curated Workspace Shared with me openai-primary-runtime Add Marketplace
Type to search plugins
› [-] [Beta] Workspace agents Installed Press Enter to view plugin details.
[*] Build Web Apps Installed · OpenAI Curated Build frontend-focused web apps with browser testing
[-] Default templates Installed · OpenAI Curated Default templates for documents, spreadsheets, and slides
[*] Documents Installed · openai-primary-runtime Create and edit document artifacts
[*] GitHub Installed · OpenAI Curated Triage PRs, issues, CI, and publish flows
[*] Gmail Installed · OpenAI Curated Read and manage Gmail
[*] Google Calendar Installed · OpenAI Curated Manage Google Calendar events and schedules
[-] Google Drive Installed · OpenAI Curated Work across Drive, Docs, Sheets, and Slides
03

Review changes before they ship
Run a dedicated review against uncommitted changes, a commit, or a base branch. Codex reports prioritized findings without modifying your working tree, so you can address risks before you commit or open a pull request.
Learn more
Select a review preset
› 1 . Review against a base branch (PR Style)
2 . Review uncommitted changes
3 . Review a commit
4 . Custom review instructions

Build a terminal workflow around Codex
Learn about the CLI features you can use to resume sessions, add visual
and web context, split up complex work, and connect Codex to your
development tools.
01 codex resume

Return to a saved chat
Reopen a recent chat from the current repository, or search across local chats when you need to return to older work.
02 codex --image

Bring visual context into the prompt
Pass an error screenshot, architecture diagram, or design reference with the first prompt, or paste an image into the interactive composer.
03 subagents

Split up a larger investigation
Ask Codex to delegate focused work to specialized agents, then bring their findings back into the main terminal session.
04 codex --search

Search for current context
Switch a run to live web search when a task depends on current releases, documentation, or external behavior. Search activity stays visible in the transcript.
05 codex cloud

Move work to Codex cloud
Browse active and completed chats, submit work to a configured environment, and apply the result to your local repository from the terminal.
06 codex mcp

Connect external tools with MCP
Add local or remote MCP servers, authenticate when needed, and inspect the tools available to the current session before Codex uses them.
07 /permissions

Set the boundaries for each run
Choose when Codex can edit files or run commands without asking, and inspect the active sandbox and writable roots before you continue.
08 codex completion

Fit Codex to your terminal
Generate completions for your shell, choose a syntax theme, and open longer prompts in the editor configured by VISUAL or EDITOR.

Use Codex CLI when…

You work from the terminal
Explore, edit, and run a repository in one focused loop.

You need scripting or CI
Run a non-interactive command in a repeatable workflow.

You want a local code review
Inspect changes before you commit or open a pull request.

You want to hand work to the cloud
Launch a cloud chat and return to the terminal later.

Other ChatGPT and Codex surfaces


──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
<!-- source: https://learn.chatgpt.com/docs/codex/ide -->
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Codex IDE extension

Build with the context already in your editor
Work with Codex beside your code. Bring open files and selections into the prompt, review edits in place, and hand off longer work without breaking your flow.
Install the extension
Extension quickstart
01

Use the context already open
Reference open files, selected code, and recent chats directly from the composer. Codex starts with the code you are already looking at, so you spend less time restating the problem.
02

Review changes beside your code
Read the summary, inspect a focused diff, and follow up in the same chat. Keep only the changes you want while the source and rationale stay visible together.
03

Delegate when the task grows
Keep quick iterations local, or connect Codex web when a task needs more time and room. Return to a reviewable result from the same editor workflow.
Quickstart

Get started in your IDE
Install or enable Codex, sign in, and start a chat with the context already open in your editor.

- 1

Install or enable Codex
Choose your IDE. VS Code and compatible editors use the Codex extension;
Xcode and JetBrains IDEs provide their own integrations.

- Visual Studio Code

- Cursor

- Windsurf

- Visual Studio Code Insiders (opens in a new tab)

- Xcode (opens in a new tab)

- JetBrains IDEs (opens in a new tab)

- 2

Open Codex
VS Code, Cursor, or Windsurf: choose the Codex icon. If it is not visible, open the Command Palette and
run Codex: Open Codex Sidebar .
Xcode: open the coding assistant,
start a new chat, and choose Codex as the agent.
JetBrains IDEs: open AI Chat and select Codex.

- 3

Start your first chat
Open a project and ask Codex to explain the codebase, make a focused
change, or help you debug an issue. Create Git checkpoints before and
after a task so you can revert changes.
Read the best practices

See what Codex can do in your IDE
Stay close to the code while Codex explains, edits, reviews, and delegates.
01

Use the context already open
Add an open file, a selection, or a recent chat to the composer, then ask Codex to explain or edit the code with that context already attached.
Learn more
MERGE_REBRAND_POSITIONING.md
element_merged_pill.png .codex/skills/add-codex-use-case/resources
Assess breaking changes
Weekly review
Slack messages
Document repo architecture
Update get started sections
Update landing page illustrations
Edit files.mdx using context from @merg
Custom ⌄ 5.6-Sol⌄
02

Review changes beside your code
Review a concise summary and the changed lines without an extra navigation pane. Inspect the two affected files, keep the edits you want, and ask for a follow-up from the same view.
Learn more
03

Delegate when the task gets bigger
Choose local work for fast, hands-on iteration, or connect Codex web to delegate a longer task. The chat stays available when you return to review the result.
Learn more
Continue in
Work locally
Cloud
openai/developers-website

Use Codex IDE extension when…

You are making focused edits
Keep the relevant files and Codex in the same view.

You are learning unfamiliar code
Ask about the files and symbols already open in the editor.

You want to review changes in place
Inspect and apply edits alongside the source.

You want to delegate a larger task
Start cloud work from the IDE and return to the result.

Other ChatGPT and Codex surfaces


──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
<!-- source: https://learn.chatgpt.com/docs/projects -->
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Use a project to organize related chats and give ChatGPT the context it needs.
The Projects view in the ChatGPT desktop app includes ChatGPT projects and
local projects that connect to folders on your computer.

Choose a project or start without one
Create a project when work will continue over time, produce more than one
output, or depend on the same files and sources. Start a chat without a project
when the work is self-contained and doesn’t need shared project context.
Use a project to keep related chats, files, instructions, and sources together.
The same project can contain chats started in Chat mode and Work mode.

Choose a project or chat without one
Create a project when work will continue over time, produce more than one
output, or depend on the same files and sources. Start a chat without a project
when the work is self-contained and doesn’t need shared project context.
Each project has a Chats section that lists project chats and a Sources section for uploaded files and connected context. Project instructions apply
across its chats. A ChatGPT project doesn’t provide direct access to a folder on
your computer, so upload or connect the sources you want ChatGPT to use.
In either mode, start a new chat from the project to use its shared files and
instructions, then return to it under Chats .
Codex CLI treats the directory where you start it as the project for the chat.
Run codex from the directory you want Codex to work in, or pass --cd <directory> ( -C ) to set it explicitly. The CLI doesn’t expose the
ChatGPT Projects view.
The IDE extension treats the folder or workspace open in your IDE as the local
project. In a multi-root workspace, select the workspace root for the chat. The
extension doesn’t expose the ChatGPT Projects view from the web or desktop app.

Work in a project
The Projects view brings ChatGPT projects and local projects into one place.
ChatGPT projects carry project files and context across related chats. A local
project gives chats access to one or more folders on your computer, such as a
collection of source files or a codebase.
Start a separate chat for each distinct outcome so its messages and results stay
focused while the project keeps related work organized.

Work in a project
A ChatGPT project gives its chats access to the same uploaded files, project
instructions, and connected sources. Use Chat mode for a quick chat or
Work mode for a larger deliverable; both appear as chats in the project’s Chats section. Start a separate chat for each distinct outcome so its
messages and results stay focused while the project preserves shared context.

Work in a project directory
Start Codex from the directory that should provide the chat’s file context. Use /new to start a separate chat for each distinct outcome. Use /resume while
Codex is open, or run codex resume , to continue a saved chat.
The chat keeps its transcript and recorded working directory, while Codex reads
files from the current working tree. Keep durable project guidance in AGENTS.md or checked-in documentation so it is available to future chats.

Work in a workspace
Open the folder or workspace that should provide the chat’s file context. Start
a new chat for each distinct outcome, then select it from Recent chats to
continue it. Chats in the same project can work with the same files, while each
chat keeps its own transcript.
The current selection and open files provide context for the current turn. Keep
durable project guidance in AGENTS.md or checked-in documentation so it is
available to future chats.

Organize projects and chats
Keep active work visible and move finished work out of the way:

- Pin a project to keep it near the top of the sidebar. You can also pin it
from the Projects view.

- Pin a chat when you return to it often, even if newer chats appear in the
project.

- Rename a chat with a short title that describes its outcome, such as “Q3
launch brief” or “Checkout accessibility review.”

- Search projects from the Projects view. Press Cmd / Ctrl + G to search past chats when you
remember a phrase or branch name but not the title.

- Archive a chat when you finish the work. From a project’s menu, select Archive chats to archive its chats together.
Pinning doesn’t add context or change what ChatGPT can access. It only changes
where the project or chat appears in the sidebar.
Restore archived chats from Settings > Archived chats .

Organize projects and chats
Keep active work visible and move finished work out of the way:

- Pin a project to keep it near the top of the sidebar. You can also pin it
from the Projects view.

- Pin a chat when you return to it often, even if newer chats appear in the
project.

- Rename a chat with a short title that describes its outcome, such as “Q3
launch brief” or “Checkout accessibility review.”

- Search projects from the Projects view. Search past chats with Cmd / Ctrl + K when you remember a phrase or
branch name but not the title.

- Archive a chat when you finish the work.
Pinning doesn’t add context or change what ChatGPT can access. It only changes
where the project or chat appears in the sidebar.
Restore archived chats from Settings > Data Controls > Archived chats .

Use local projects for folders and codebases
Add a local project when ChatGPT needs to read or change files in a folder on
your computer. For a codebase, the project folder becomes the working directory
for Codex chats.
If a repository contains more than one app or package, use distinct local
projects when each chat should access only one part of the repository. This
keeps the working context focused. Use local environments to define setup actions and common commands for a project.
When you want to isolate code changes from your current checkout, select Codex
and start the chat in a worktree . Projects and worktrees organize work,
but the sandbox enforces what local commands can
read, change, or access over the network.

Start a chat without a project
Select New chat when the work is self-contained and doesn’t need shared
project files, instructions, or folder access. Create a project first when
several chats will depend on the same context.

Start a chat without a project
Start a chat from ChatGPT Home when the chat doesn’t need shared project
files, instructions, or sources. You can use Chat mode or Work mode; on the web,
both create chats.
If the work grows, move it into a project and use clear chat names for each
outcome. A project can hold parallel chats for research, drafting, review, and
follow-up without mixing every message into one context.

Use Quick chat for a quick question
Quick chat opens an ordinary ChatGPT chat. ChatGPT chats don’t appear in the
Codex sidebar, which contains your Codex chats and projects.
Point to New chat , then select the Quick chat icon on its right. You can
also press
Cmd+Option+N on macOS or Ctrl+Alt+N on Windows. From New
chat , you can open an existing ChatGPT chat and add it to a Codex chat.

Bring in other tools and context

- Attach files or image inputs directly to a chat
when they apply only to that request.

- Install plugins to bring in context and actions from other
services.

- Configure MCP servers when your organization or developer setup
exposes tools through Model Context Protocol.

- Use memories , where available, to carry useful context from
past work into future chats.

- Pass image inputs to a chat when visual context applies
only to that request.

- Install plugins to bring in context and actions from other
services.

- Configure MCP servers when your organization or developer setup
exposes tools through Model Context Protocol.

- Use memories , where available, to carry useful context from
past work into future chats.

- Reference open files or select code in the editor to add context for the
current turn.

- Configure MCP servers when your organization or developer setup
exposes tools through Model Context Protocol.

- Use memories from the connected Codex host, where
available, to carry useful context into future chats.

- Add files and connected sources to the project’s Sources section when they
should be available across its chats.

- Attach files or image inputs directly to a chat when
they apply only to that chat.

- In Work mode, install plugins to bring in context and
actions from other services.

- Use memories , where available, to carry useful context from
past work into future chats.

Next steps

- Learn how to write and refine prompts

- Learn how to use ChatGPT

- Continue long-running work


──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
<!-- source: https://learn.chatgpt.com/docs/agent-configuration/agents-md -->
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Codex reads AGENTS.md files before doing any work. By layering global guidance with project-specific overrides, you can start each task with consistent expectations, no matter which repository you open.

How Codex discovers guidance
Codex builds an instruction chain when it starts (once per run; in the TUI this usually means once per launched session). Discovery follows this precedence order:

- Global scope: In your Codex home directory (defaults to ~/.codex , unless you set CODEX_HOME ), Codex reads AGENTS.override.md if it exists. Otherwise, Codex reads AGENTS.md . Codex uses only the first non-empty file at this level.

- Project scope: Starting at the project root (typically the Git root), Codex walks down to your current working directory. If Codex cannot find a project root, it only checks the current directory. In each directory along the path, it checks for AGENTS.override.md , then AGENTS.md , then any fallback names in project_doc_fallback_filenames . Codex includes at most one file per directory.

- Merge order: Codex concatenates files from the root down, joining them with blank lines. Files closer to your current directory override earlier guidance because they appear later in the combined prompt.
Codex skips empty files and stops adding files once the combined size reaches the limit defined by project_doc_max_bytes (32 KiB by default). For details on these knobs, see Project instructions discovery . Raise the limit or split instructions across nested directories when you hit the cap.

Create global guidance
Create persistent defaults in your Codex home directory so every repository inherits your working agreements.

- Ensure the directory exists:
mkdir -p ~/.codex

- Create ~/.codex/AGENTS.md with reusable preferences:
# ~/.codex/AGENTS.md ## Working agreements - Always run `npm test` after modifying JavaScript files. - Prefer `pnpm` when installing dependencies. - Ask for confirmation before adding new production dependencies.

- Run Codex anywhere to confirm it loads the file:
codex --ask-for-approval never "Summarize the current instructions."
Expected: Codex quotes the items from ~/.codex/AGENTS.md before proposing work.
Use ~/.codex/AGENTS.override.md when you need a temporary global override without deleting the base file. Remove the override to restore the shared guidance.

Layer project instructions
Repository-level files keep Codex aware of project norms while still inheriting your global defaults.

- In your repository root, add an AGENTS.md that covers basic setup:
# AGENTS.md ## Repository expectations - Run `npm run lint` before opening a pull request. - Document public utilities in `docs/` when you change behavior.

- Add overrides in nested directories when specific teams need different rules. For example, inside services/payments/ create AGENTS.override.md :
# services/payments/AGENTS.override.md ## Payments service rules - Use `make test-payments` instead of `npm test` . - Never rotate API keys without notifying the security channel.

- Start Codex from the payments directory:
codex --cd services/payments --ask-for-approval never "List the instruction sources you loaded."
Expected: Codex reports the global file first, the repository root AGENTS.md second, and the payments override last.
Codex stops searching once it reaches your current directory, so place overrides as close to specialized work as possible.
Here is a sample repository after you add a global file and a payments-specific override:

- AGENTS.md Repository expectations

- services/

- payments/

- AGENTS.md Ignored because an override exists

- AGENTS.override.md Payments service rules

- README.md

- search/

- AGENTS.md

- …

Add code review rules
For Codex code review in GitHub ,
add a ## Code Review Rules section to the AGENTS.md closest to the code the
rules govern. Put repository-wide checks at the root and service-specific
checks in a nested file.
## Code Review Rules ### Experiment cohorts - Do not filter treatment comparisons on post-exposure behavior, including conversion or retention. Safe path: build cohorts from assignment or exposure; report conversion as an outcome.
Keep rules concise, explain the behavior to flag and any safe path or
exception, and reserve formatting and lint checks for CI. See Customize what
Codex reviews for
setup and rule-writing guidance.

Customize fallback filenames
If your repository already uses a different filename (for example TEAM_GUIDE.md ), add it to the fallback list so Codex treats it like an instructions file.

- Edit your Codex configuration:
# ~/.codex/config.toml project_doc_fallback_filenames = [ "TEAM_GUIDE.md" , ".agents.md" ] project_doc_max_bytes = 65536

- Restart Codex or run a new command so the updated configuration loads.
Now Codex checks each directory in this order: AGENTS.override.md , AGENTS.md , TEAM_GUIDE.md , .agents.md . Filenames not on this list are ignored for instruction discovery. The larger byte limit allows more combined guidance before truncation.
With the fallback list in place, Codex treats the alternate files as instructions:

- TEAM_GUIDE.md Detected via fallback list

- .agents.md Fallback file in root

- support/

- AGENTS.override.md Overrides fallback guidance

- playbooks/

- …
Set the CODEX_HOME environment variable when you want a different profile, such as a project-specific automation user:
CODEX_HOME = $( pwd ) /.codex codex exec "List active instruction sources"
Expected: The output lists files relative to the custom .codex directory.

Verify your setup

- Run codex --ask-for-approval never "Summarize the current instructions." from a repository root. Codex should echo guidance from global and project files in precedence order.

- Use codex --cd subdir --ask-for-approval never "Show which instruction files are active." to confirm nested overrides replace broader rules.

- To audit which instruction files Codex loaded, opt into a plaintext TUI log with codex -c log_dir=./.codex-log and check ./.codex-log/codex-tui.log , or inspect the most recent session-*.jsonl file if you enabled session logging.

- If instructions look stale, restart Codex in the target directory. Codex rebuilds the instruction chain on every run (and at the start of each TUI session), so there is no cache to clear manually.

Troubleshoot discovery issues

- Nothing loads: Verify you are in the intended repository and that codex status reports the workspace root you expect. Ensure instruction files contain content; Codex ignores empty files.

- Wrong guidance appears: Look for an AGENTS.override.md higher in the directory tree or under your Codex home. Rename or remove the override to fall back to the regular file.

- Codex ignores fallback names: Confirm you listed the names in project_doc_fallback_filenames without typos, then restart Codex so the updated configuration takes effect.

- Instructions truncated: Raise project_doc_max_bytes or split large files across nested directories to keep critical guidance intact.

- Profile confusion: Run echo $CODEX_HOME before launching Codex. A non-default value points Codex at a different home directory than the one you edited.

Next steps

- Visit the official AGENTS.md website for more information.

- Review Prompting Codex for conversational patterns that pair well with persistent guidance.


──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
<!-- source: https://learn.chatgpt.com/docs/customization/memories -->
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Memories let ChatGPT and Codex carry useful context from earlier work into
future work.
ChatGPT web uses ChatGPT memory, while local Codex clients use a separate local
memory store and controls.
Keep required team guidance in AGENTS.md or checked-in documentation. Treat
memories as a helpful recall layer, not as the only source for rules that must
always apply.
In the ChatGPT desktop app, use /memories to choose whether a chat can use
local memories or contribute to future memories. Manage the feature from Settings > Personalization when you need to turn it on or off.
Manage ChatGPT memory from Settings > Personalization . Work mode uses
the memory settings available to your account and workspace; it doesn’t use a
local Codex memory store or local memory controls.
In Codex CLI, use /memories in an interactive session to control whether the
current chat can use existing local memories or become an input for future
memories. See Configure local memories if the
command isn’t available.
The IDE extension uses the connected Codex host’s local memory store. When
memories are enabled for that host, use the same chat-level controls as Codex
CLI.
Chronicle is a desktop-only feature that helps
Codex recover recent working context from your screen to build up memory.

How local Codex memories work
After you enable memories, Codex can turn useful context from eligible prior
chats into local memory files. Codex skips active or short-lived sessions,
redacts secrets from generated memory fields, and updates memories in the
background instead of immediately at the end of every chat.
Memories may not update right away when a chat ends. Codex waits until a
chat has been idle long enough to avoid summarizing work that’s still in
progress.
Memory generation can also skip a background pass when your Codex rate-limit
remaining percentage is below the configured threshold, so Codex doesn’t spend
quota when you’re near a limit.

Local memory storage
Codex stores memories under your Codex home directory. By default, that’s ~/.codex . See Config and state locations for how Codex uses CODEX_HOME .
The main memory files live under ~/.codex/memories/ and include summaries,
durable entries, recent inputs, and supporting evidence from prior chats.
Treat these files as generated state. You can inspect them when troubleshooting
or before sharing your Codex home directory, but don’t rely on editing them by
hand as your primary control surface.

Control local memories per chat
In the ChatGPT desktop app and Codex TUI, use /memories to control memory behavior for
the current chat. Chat-level choices let you decide whether the current
chat can use existing memories and whether Codex can use the chat to
generate future memories.
Chat-level choices don’t change your global memory settings.

Review local memories
Don’t store secrets in memories. Codex redacts secrets from generated memory
fields, but you should still review memory files before sharing your Codex home
directory or generated memory artifacts.

Configure local memories
Local Codex memories are off by default. In the ChatGPT desktop app, open Settings > Personalization and turn on Enable memories .
For config-based setup, add the feature flag to config.toml :
[ features ] memories = true
For config file locations and the full list of memory-related settings, see Config basics and the configuration
reference .
Common memory-specific settings include:

- memories.generate_memories : controls whether newly created chats can be
stored as memory-generation inputs.

- memories.use_memories : controls whether Codex injects existing memories into
future sessions.

- memories.disable_on_external_context : when true , keeps chats that used
external context such as MCP tool calls, web search, or tool search out of
memory generation. The older memories.no_memories_if_mcp_or_web_search key
is still accepted as an alias.

- memories.min_rate_limit_remaining_percent : controls the minimum remaining
Codex rate-limit percentage required before memory generation starts.

- memories.extract_model : overrides the model used for per-chat memory
extraction.

- memories.consolidation_model : overrides the model used for global memory
consolidation.


──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
<!-- source: https://learn.chatgpt.com/docs/config-file/config-basic -->
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Codex reads configuration details from more than one location. Your personal defaults live in ~/.codex/config.toml , and you can add project overrides with .codex/config.toml files. For security, Codex loads project .codex/ layers only when you trust the project.

Codex configuration file
Codex stores user-level configuration at ~/.codex/config.toml . To scope settings to a specific project or subfolder, add a .codex/config.toml file in your repo.
To open the configuration file from the Codex IDE extension, select the gear icon in the top-right corner, then select Codex Settings > Open config.toml .
The CLI and IDE extension share the same configuration layers. You can use them to:

- Set the default model and provider.

- Configure approval policies and sandbox settings .

- Configure MCP servers .

Configuration precedence
Codex resolves values in this order (highest precedence first):

- CLI flags and --config overrides

- Project config files: .codex/config.toml , ordered from the project root down to your current working directory (closest wins; trusted projects only)

- Profile files selected with --profile profile-name ( ~/.codex/profile-name.config.toml )

- User config: ~/.codex/config.toml

- System config (if present): /etc/codex/config.toml on Unix

- Built-in defaults
Use that precedence to set shared defaults in config.toml and keep profile files focused on the values that differ.
If you mark a project as untrusted, Codex skips project-scoped .codex/ layers, including project-local config, hooks, and rules. User and system config still load, including user/global hooks and rules.
For one-off overrides via -c / --config (including TOML quoting rules), see Advanced Config .
On managed machines, your organization may also enforce constraints via requirements.toml (for example, disallowing approval_policy = "never" or sandbox_mode = "danger-full-access" ). See Managed
configuration and Admin-enforced
requirements .

Common configuration options
Here are a few options people change most often:

Default model
Choose the model Codex uses by default in the CLI and IDE.

Approval prompts
Control when Codex pauses to ask before running generated commands.
approval_policy = "on-request"
For behavior differences between untrusted , on-request , and never , see Run without approval prompts and Common sandbox and approval combinations .

Sandbox level
Adjust how much filesystem and network access Codex has while executing commands.
sandbox_mode = "workspace-write"
For mode-by-mode behavior (including protected .git / .codex paths and network defaults), see Sandbox and approvals , Protected paths in writable roots , and Network access .

Permission profiles
Codex also supports named permission profiles for reusable filesystem and
network policies. Built-in profiles are :read-only , :workspace , and :danger-full-access . Custom profiles use [permissions.<name>] tables and a
matching default_permissions value. See Permissions .

Windows sandbox mode
When running Codex natively on Windows, set the native sandbox mode to elevated in the windows table. Use unelevated only if you don’t have administrator permissions or if elevated setup fails.
[ windows ] sandbox = "elevated" # Recommended # sandbox = "unelevated" # Fallback if admin permissions/setup are unavailable

Web search mode
Codex enables web search by default for local chats and serves results from a web search cache. The cache is an OpenAI-maintained index of web results, so cached mode returns pre-indexed results instead of fetching live pages. This reduces exposure to prompt injection from arbitrary live content, but you should still treat web results as untrusted. If you are using --yolo or another full access sandbox setting , web search defaults to live results. Choose a mode with web_search :

- "cached" (default) serves results from the web search cache.

- "indexed" permits external web access only when the search index gates the request.

- "live" fetches the most recent data from the web (same as --search ).

- "disabled" turns off the web search tool.
web_search = "cached" # default; serves results from the web search cache # web_search = "indexed" # gate external web access through the search index # web_search = "live" # fetch the most recent data from the web (same as --search) # web_search = "disabled"

Reasoning effort
Tune how much reasoning effort the model applies when supported.
model_reasoning_effort = "high"

Communication style
Set a default communication style for supported models.
personality = "friendly" # or "pragmatic" or "none"
You can override this later in an active session with /personality or per thread/turn when using the app-server APIs.

TUI keymap
Customize terminal shortcuts under tui.keymap . Selected composer actions fall back to matching tui.keymap.global bindings; context-specific bindings take precedence when supported. An empty list unbinds the action.
[ tui . keymap . global ] open_transcript = "ctrl-t" [ tui . keymap . composer ] submit = [ "enter" , "ctrl-m" ] [ tui . keymap . chat ] interrupt_turn = "f12"

Command environment
Control which environment variables Codex forwards to spawned commands.
[ shell_environment_policy ] include_only = [ "PATH" , "HOME" ]

Log directory
Override where Codex writes local log files. Setting log_dir explicitly also
enables the opt-in plaintext TUI log, codex-tui.log , in that directory.
log_dir = "/absolute/path/to/codex-logs"
For one-off runs, you can also set it from the CLI:
codex -c log_dir=./.codex-log

Feature flags
Use the [features] table in config.toml to toggle optional and experimental capabilities.

Common feature flags
Key Default Maturity Description
apps true Stable Enable app (connector) integrations
goals true Stable Enable persisted goals and automatic continuation
hooks true Stable Enable lifecycle hooks from hooks.json or inline [hooks] . See Hooks .
fast_mode true Stable Enable Fast mode selection and the service_tier = "fast" path
memories false Experimental Enable Memories
multi_agent true Stable Enable subagent collaboration tools
personality true Stable Enable personality selection controls
remote_plugin true Stable Enable the remote plugin catalog
shell_snapshot true Stable Snapshot your shell environment to speed up repeated commands
shell_tool true Stable Enable the default shell tool
unified_exec true except Windows Stable Use the unified PTY-backed exec tool
web_search true Deprecated Legacy toggle; prefer the top-level web_search setting
web_search_cached false Deprecated Legacy toggle that maps to web_search = "cached" when unset
web_search_request false Deprecated Legacy toggle that maps to web_search = "live" when unset
This table lists common user-facing flags, not every internal or
under-development feature. The Maturity column uses labels such as
Experimental, Beta, and Stable. See Feature
Maturity for how to interpret these labels.
Omit feature keys to keep their defaults.
For lifecycle hook configuration, see Hooks .

Enabling features

- In config.toml , add feature_name = true under [features] .

- From the CLI, run codex --enable feature_name .

- To enable more than one feature, run codex --enable feature_a --enable feature_b .

- To disable a feature, set the key to false in config.toml .


──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
<!-- source: https://learn.chatgpt.com/docs/agent-configuration/rules -->
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Use rules to control which commands Codex can run outside the sandbox.
Rules are experimental and may change.

Create a rules file

- Create a .rules file under a rules/ folder next to an active config layer (for example, ~/.codex/rules/default.rules ).

- Add a rule. This example prompts before allowing gh pr view to run outside the sandbox.
# Prompt before running commands with the prefix `gh pr view` outside the sandbox. prefix_rule( # The prefix to match. pattern = [ "gh" , "pr" , "view" ], # The action to take when Codex requests to run a matching command. decision = "prompt" , # Optional rationale for why this rule exists. justification = "Viewing PRs is allowed with approval" , # `match` and `not_match` are optional "inline unit tests" where you can # provide examples of commands that should (or should not) match this rule. match = [ "gh pr view 7888" , "gh pr view --repo openai/codex" , "gh pr view 7888 --json title,body,comments" , ], not_match = [ # Does not match because the `pattern` must be an exact prefix. "gh pr --repo openai/codex view 7888" , ], )

- Restart Codex.
Codex scans rules/ under every active config layer at startup, including Team Config locations and the user layer at ~/.codex/rules/ . Project-local rules under <repo>/.codex/rules/ load only when the project .codex/ layer is trusted.
When you add a command to the allow list in the TUI, Codex writes to the user layer at ~/.codex/rules/default.rules so future runs can skip the prompt.
When Smart approvals are enabled (the default), Codex may propose a prefix_rule for you during escalation requests. Review the suggested prefix
carefully before accepting it.
Admins can also enforce restrictive prefix_rule entries from requirements.toml .

Understand rule fields
prefix_rule() supports these fields:

- pattern (required) : A non-empty list that defines the command prefix to match. Each element is either:

- A literal string (for example, "pr" ).

- A union of literals (for example, ["view", "list"] ) to match alternatives at that argument position.

- decision (defaults to "allow" ) : The action to take when the rule matches. Codex applies the most restrictive decision when more than one rule matches ( forbidden > prompt > allow ).

- allow : Run the command outside the sandbox without prompting.

- prompt : Prompt before each matching invocation.

- forbidden : Block the request without prompting.

- justification (optional) : A non-empty, human-readable reason for the rule. Codex may surface it in approval prompts or rejection messages. When you use forbidden , include a recommended alternative in the justification when appropriate (for example, "Use \ rg` instead of `grep`.”`).

- match and not_match (defaults to [] ) : Examples that Codex validates when it loads your rules. Use these to catch mistakes before a rule takes effect.
When Codex considers a command to run, it compares the command’s argument list to pattern . Internally, Codex treats the command as a list of arguments (like what execvp(3) receives).

Shell wrappers and compound commands
Some tools wrap several shell commands into a single invocation, for example:
["bash", "-lc", "git add . && rm -rf /"]
Because this kind of command can hide multiple actions inside one string, Codex treats bash -lc , bash -c , and their zsh / sh equivalents specially.

When Codex can safely split the script
If the shell script is a linear chain of commands made only of:

- plain words (no variable expansion, no VAR=... , $FOO , * , etc.)

- joined by safe operators ( && , || , ; , or | )
then Codex parses it (using tree-sitter) and splits it into individual commands before applying your rules.
The script above is treated as two separate commands:

- ["git", "add", "."]

- ["rm", "-rf", "/"]
Codex then evaluates each command against your rules, and the most restrictive result wins.
Even if you allow pattern=["git", "add"] , Codex won’t auto allow git add . && rm -rf / , because the rm -rf / portion is evaluated separately and prevents the whole invocation from being auto allowed.
This prevents dangerous commands from being smuggled in alongside safe ones.

When Codex does not split the script
If the script uses more advanced shell features, such as:

- redirection ( > , >> , < )

- substitutions ( $(...) , ... )

- environment variables ( FOO=bar )

- wildcard patterns ( * , ? )

- control flow ( if , for , && with assignments, etc.)
then Codex doesn’t try to interpret or split it.
In those cases, the entire invocation is treated as:
["bash", "-lc", "<full script>"]
and your rules are applied to that single invocation.
With this handling, you get the security of per-command evaluation when it’s safe to do so, and conservative behavior when it isn’t.

Test a rule file
Use codex execpolicy check to test how your rules apply to a command:
codex execpolicy check --pretty \ --rules ~/.codex/rules/default.rules \ -- gh pr view 7888 --json title,body,comments
The command emits JSON showing the strictest decision and any matching rules, including any justification values from matched rules. Use more than one --rules flag to combine files, and add --pretty to format the output.

Understand the rules language
The .rules file format uses Starlark (see the language spec ). Its syntax is like Python, but it’s designed to be safe to run: the rules engine can run it without side effects (for example, touching the filesystem).


──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
<!-- source: https://learn.chatgpt.com/docs/build-skills -->
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Use agent skills to extend Codex with task-specific capabilities. A skill packages instructions, resources, and optional scripts so Codex can follow a workflow reliably. Skills build on the open agent skills standard .
Skills are the authoring format for reusable workflows. Plugins distribute reusable skills and connectors to Work mode in ChatGPT on the web and to Work mode and Codex in the ChatGPT desktop app. Codex CLI can also install plugins. Use skills to design the workflow itself, then package it as a plugin when you want other people in your workspace to install it.
Skills are available in the ChatGPT desktop app, Codex CLI, and IDE extension.
In the ChatGPT desktop app, open Skills in the sidebar to view and explore skills
created across your projects.
Skills use progressive disclosure to manage context efficiently: Codex starts with each skill’s name, description, and file path. Codex loads the full SKILL.md instructions only when it decides to use a skill.
Codex includes an initial list of available skills in context so it can choose the right skill for a task. To avoid crowding out the rest of the prompt, this list uses at most 2% of the model’s context window, or 8,000 characters when the context window is unknown. If many skills are installed, Codex shortens skill descriptions first. For large skill sets, Codex may omit some skills from the initial list and show a warning.
This budget applies only to the initial skills list. When Codex selects a skill, it still reads the full SKILL.md instructions for that skill.
A skill is a directory with a SKILL.md file plus optional scripts and references. The SKILL.md file must include name and description .

- my-skill/

- SKILL.md Required: instructions + metadata

- scripts/ Optional: executable code

- references/ Optional: documentation

- assets/ Optional: templates, resources

- agents/

- openai.yaml Optional: appearance and dependencies

How Codex uses skills
Codex can activate skills in two ways:

- Explicit invocation: Include the skill directly in your prompt. In CLI/IDE, run /skills or type $ to mention a skill.

- Implicit invocation: Codex can choose a skill when your task matches the skill description .
Because implicit matching depends on description , write concise descriptions with clear scope and boundaries. Front-load the key use case and trigger words so Codex can still match the skill if descriptions are shortened.

Create a skill
If you already know the workflow and it’s easier to show than describe, use Record & Replay . Codex records the workflow,
inspects the steps, and drafts a reusable skill from the demonstration.
If you want to describe the skill instead, use the built-in creator:
$skill-creator
The creator asks what the skill does, when it should trigger, and whether it should stay instruction-only or include scripts. Instruction-only is the default.
You can also create a skill manually by creating a folder with a SKILL.md file:
--- name : skill-name description : Explain exactly when this skill should and should not trigger. --- Skill instructions for Codex to follow.
Codex detects skill changes automatically. If an update doesn’t appear, restart Codex.

Where to save skills
Codex reads skills from repository, user, admin, and system locations. For repositories, Codex scans .agents/skills in every directory from your current working directory up to the repository root. If two skills share the same name , Codex doesn’t merge them; both can appear in skill selectors.
Skill Scope Location Suggested use
REPO $CWD/.agents/skills
Current working directory: where you launch Codex. If you’re in a repository or code environment, teams can check in skills relevant to a working folder. For example, skills only relevant to a microservice or a module.
REPO $CWD/../.agents/skills
A folder above CWD when you launch Codex inside a Git repository. If you’re in a repository with nested folders, organizations can check in skills relevant to a shared area in a parent folder.
REPO $REPO_ROOT/.agents/skills
The topmost root folder when you launch Codex inside a Git repository. If you’re in a repository with nested folders, organizations can check in skills relevant to everyone using the repository. These serve as root skills available to any subfolder in the repository.
USER $HOME/.agents/skills
Any skills checked into the user’s personal folder. Use to curate skills relevant to a user that apply to any repository the user may work in.
ADMIN /etc/codex/skills
Any skills checked into the machine or container in a shared, system location. Use for SDK scripts, automation, and for checking in default admin skills available to each user on the machine.
SYSTEM Bundled with Codex by OpenAI. Useful skills relevant to a broad audience such as the skill-creator and plan skills. Available to everyone when they start Codex.
Codex supports symlinked skill folders and follows the symlink target when scanning these locations.
These locations are for authoring and local discovery. When you want to
distribute reusable skills beyond a single repo, or optionally bundle them with
connectors, use plugins .

Distribute skills with plugins
Direct skill folders are best for local authoring and repo-scoped workflows. If
you want to distribute a reusable skill, bundle two or more skills together, or
ship a skill alongside a connector, package them as a plugin .
Plugins can include one or more skills. They can also optionally bundle app
mappings, MCP server configuration, and presentation assets in a single
package.

Install curated skills for local use
To add curated skills beyond the built-ins for your own local Codex setup, use $skill-installer . For example, to install the $linear skill:
$skill-installer linear
You can also prompt the installer to download skills from other repositories.
Codex detects newly installed skills automatically; if one doesn’t appear,
restart Codex.
Use this for local setup and experimentation. For reusable distribution of your
own skills, prefer plugins.

Enable or disable skills
Use [[skills.config]] entries in ~/.codex/config.toml to disable a skill without deleting it:
[[ skills . config ]] path = "/path/to/skill/SKILL.md" enabled = false
Restart Codex after changing ~/.codex/config.toml .

Optional metadata
Add agents/openai.yaml to configure UI metadata in the ChatGPT desktop app , to set invocation policy, and to declare tool dependencies for a more seamless experience with using the skill.
interface : display_name : "Optional user-facing name" short_description : "Optional user-facing description" icon_small : "./assets/small-logo.svg" icon_large : "./assets/large-logo.png" brand_color : "#3B82F6" default_prompt : "Optional surrounding prompt to use the skill with" policy : allow_implicit_invocation : false dependencies : tools : - type : "mcp" value : "openaiDeveloperDocs" description : "OpenAI Docs MCP server" transport : "streamable_http" url : "https://developers.openai.com/mcp"
allow_implicit_invocation (default: true ): When false , Codex won’t implicitly invoke the skill based on user prompt; explicit $skill invocation still works.

Best practices

- Keep each skill focused on one job.

- Prefer instructions over scripts unless you need deterministic behavior or external tooling.

- Write imperative steps with explicit inputs and outputs.

- Test prompts against the skill description to confirm the right trigger behavior.
For more examples, see GitHub CI repair , PDF , Linear , openai/skills , and the agent skills specification . For
installable distribution, prefer plugins .


──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
<!-- source: https://learn.chatgpt.com/docs/hooks -->
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Hooks are an extensibility framework for Codex. They allow
you to inject your own scripts into the agentic loop, enabling features such as:

- Send the chat to a custom logging/analytics engine

- Scan your team’s prompts to block accidentally pasting API keys

- Summarize chats to create persistent memories automatically

- Run a custom validation check when a chat turn stops, enforcing standards

- Customize prompting when in a certain directory
Runtime behavior to keep in mind:

- Matching hooks from multiple files all run.

- Multiple matching command hooks for the same event are launched concurrently,
so one hook can’t prevent another matching hook from starting.

- Non-managed command hooks must be reviewed and trusted before they run.

- PreToolUse , PermissionRequest , PostToolUse , PreCompact , PostCompact , UserPromptSubmit , SubagentStop , and Stop run at turn
scope. SessionStart and SubagentStart run at thread or subagent-start
scope.

Where Codex looks for hooks
Codex discovers hooks next to active config layers in either of these forms:

- hooks.json

- inline [hooks] tables inside config.toml
Installed plugins can also bundle lifecycle config through their plugin
manifest or a default hooks/hooks.json file. See Build
plugins for the
plugin packaging rules.
In practice, the four most useful locations are:

- ~/.codex/hooks.json

- ~/.codex/config.toml

- <repo>/.codex/hooks.json

- <repo>/.codex/config.toml
If more than one hook source exists, Codex loads all matching hooks.
Higher-precedence config layers don’t replace lower-precedence hooks.
If a single layer contains both hooks.json and inline [hooks] , Codex
merges them and warns at startup. Prefer one representation per layer.
Codex can also discover hooks bundled with enabled plugins. Plugin-bundled
hooks load alongside other hook sources and use the same trust-review flow as
other non-managed hooks.
Project-local hooks load only when the project .codex/ layer is trusted. In
untrusted projects, Codex still loads user and system hooks from their own
active config layers.

Review and trust hooks
Codex lists configured hooks before deciding which ones can run. Before a
non-managed command hook can run, Codex requires you to review and trust the
exact hook definition. Codex records trust against the hook’s current hash, so
new or changed hooks are marked for review and skipped until trusted.
Use /hooks in the CLI to inspect hook sources, review new or changed hooks,
trust hooks, or disable individual non-managed hooks. If hooks need review at
startup, Codex prints a warning that tells you to open /hooks .
Managed hooks from system, MDM, cloud, or requirements.toml sources are marked
as managed, trusted by policy, and can’t be disabled from the user hook browser.
For one-off automation that already vets hook sources outside Codex, pass --dangerously-bypass-hook-trust to run enabled hooks without requiring
persisted hook trust for that invocation.

Config shape
Hooks are organized in three levels:

- A hook event such as PreToolUse , PostToolUse , PreCompact , SubagentStart , or Stop

- A matcher group that decides when that event matches

- One or more hook handlers that run when the matcher group matches
{ "description" : "Optional lifecycle hooks for this workspace." , "hooks" : { "SessionStart" : [ { "matcher" : "startup|resume" , "hooks" : [ { "type" : "command" , "command" : "python3 ~/.codex/hooks/session_start.py" , "statusMessage" : "Loading session notes" } ] } ], "PreToolUse" : [ { "matcher" : "Bash" , "hooks" : [ { "type" : "command" , "command" : "/usr/bin/python3 \" $(git rev-parse --show-toplevel)/.codex/hooks/pre_tool_use_policy.py \" " , "statusMessage" : "Checking Bash command" } ] } ], "PermissionRequest" : [ { "matcher" : "Bash" , "hooks" : [ { "type" : "command" , "command" : "/usr/bin/python3 \" $(git rev-parse --show-toplevel)/.codex/hooks/permission_request.py \" " , "statusMessage" : "Checking approval request" } ] } ], "PostToolUse" : [ { "matcher" : "Bash" , "hooks" : [ { "type" : "command" , "command" : "/usr/bin/python3 \" $(git rev-parse --show-toplevel)/.codex/hooks/post_tool_use_review.py \" " , "statusMessage" : "Reviewing Bash output" } ] } ], "UserPromptSubmit" : [ { "hooks" : [ { "type" : "command" , "command" : "/usr/bin/python3 \" $(git rev-parse --show-toplevel)/.codex/hooks/user_prompt_submit_data_flywheel.py \" " } ] } ], "Stop" : [ { "hooks" : [ { "type" : "command" , "command" : "/usr/bin/python3 \" $(git rev-parse --show-toplevel)/.codex/hooks/stop_continue.py \" " , "timeout" : 30 } ] } ] } }
Notes:

- description is optional top-level metadata for a hooks.json file. It
doesn’t change which hooks run.

- timeout is in seconds.

- If timeout is omitted, Codex uses 600 seconds.

- statusMessage is optional.

- commandWindows is an optional Windows-only command override. In TOML, use command_windows or commandWindows .

- The async option is parsed, but asynchronous command hooks aren’t supported
yet. Codex skips those handlers.

- Only type: "command" handlers run today. prompt and agent handlers are
parsed but skipped.

- Commands run with the session cwd as their working directory.

- For repo-local hooks, prefer resolving from the git root instead of using a
relative path such as .codex/hooks/... . Codex may be started from a
subdirectory, and a git-root-based path keeps the hook location stable.
Equivalent inline TOML in config.toml :
[[ hooks . PreToolUse ]] matcher = "^Bash$" [[ hooks . PreToolUse . hooks ]] type = "command" command = '/usr/bin/python3 "$(git rev-parse --show-toplevel)/.codex/hooks/pre_tool_use_policy.py"' timeout = 30 statusMessage = "Checking Bash command" [[ hooks . PostToolUse ]] matcher = "^Bash$" [[ hooks . PostToolUse . hooks ]] type = "command" command = '/usr/bin/python3 "$(git rev-parse --show-toplevel)/.codex/hooks/post_tool_use_review.py"' timeout = 30 statusMessage = "Reviewing Bash output"

Turn hooks off
Hooks are enabled by default. To turn them off in config.toml , set:
[ features ] hooks = false
Use hooks as the canonical feature key. codex_hooks still works as a
deprecated alias. Admins can force hooks off the same way in requirements.toml with [features].hooks = false .

Managed hooks from requirements.toml
Enterprise-managed requirements can also define hooks inline under [hooks] .
This is useful when admins want to enforce the hook configuration while
delivering the actual scripts through MDM or another device-management system.
To enforce managed hooks even for users who disabled hooks locally, pin [features].hooks = true in requirements.toml alongside [hooks] . To ignore
user, project, session, and plugin hooks while still allowing administrator
managed hooks, set allow_managed_hooks_only = true .
allow_managed_hooks_only = true [ features ] hooks = true [ hooks ] managed_dir = "/enterprise/hooks" windows_managed_dir = 'C:\enterprise\hooks' [[ hooks . PreToolUse ]] matcher = "^Bash$" [[ hooks . PreToolUse . hooks ]] type = "command" command = "python3 /enterprise/hooks/pre_tool_use_policy.py" command_windows = 'py -3 C:\enterprise\hooks\pre_tool_use_policy.py' timeout = 30 statusMessage = "Checking managed Bash command"
Notes for managed hooks:

- managed_dir is used on macOS and Linux.

- windows_managed_dir is used on Windows.

- Codex doesn’t distribute the scripts in managed_dir ; your enterprise
tooling must install and update them separately.

- Managed hook commands should use absolute script paths under the configured
managed directory.

- allow_managed_hooks_only = true skips hooks from user, project, session, and
plugin sources, but still loads managed hooks from requirements.toml and
other managed config layers.

Plugin-bundled hooks
When a plugin is enabled, Codex can load lifecycle hooks from that plugin
alongside user, project, and managed hooks.
By default, Codex looks for hooks/hooks.json inside the plugin root. A plugin
manifest can override that default with a hooks entry in .codex-plugin/plugin.json . The manifest entry can be a ./ -prefixed path, an
array of ./ -prefixed paths, an inline hooks object, or an array of inline
hooks objects.
{ "name" : "repo-policy" , "hooks" : "./hooks/hooks.json" }
Manifest hook paths are resolved relative to the plugin root and must stay
inside that root. If a manifest defines hooks , Codex uses those manifest
entries instead of the default hooks/hooks.json .
Plugin hook commands receive these environment variables:

- PLUGIN_ROOT is a Codex-specific extension that points to the installed
plugin root.

- PLUGIN_DATA is a Codex-specific extension that points to the plugin’s
writable data directory.

- Codex also sets CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT and CLAUDE_PLUGIN_DATA for
compatibility with existing plugin hooks.
Plugin hooks use the same event schema as other hooks. Installing or enabling a
plugin doesn’t automatically trust its hooks; Codex skips plugin-bundled hooks
until you review and trust the current hook definition.

Matcher patterns
The matcher field is a regex string that filters when hooks fire. Use "*" , "" , or omit matcher entirely to match every occurrence of a supported
event.
Only some current Codex events honor matcher :
Event What matcher filters Notes
PermissionRequest tool name Support includes Bash , apply_patch *, and MCP tool names
PostToolUse tool name See Tool coverage
PostCompact compaction trigger Values are manual or auto
PreCompact compaction trigger Values are manual or auto
PreToolUse tool name See Tool coverage
SessionStart start source Values are startup , resume , clear , and compact
SubagentStart subagent type Values depend on the subagent that starts
SubagentStop subagent type Values depend on the subagent that stops
UserPromptSubmit not supported Any configured matcher is ignored for this event
Stop not supported Any configured matcher is ignored for this event
*For apply_patch , matcher values can also use Edit or Write .
Examples:

- Bash

- ^apply_patch$

- Edit|Write

- mcp__filesystem__read_file

- mcp__filesystem__.*

- startup|resume|clear|compact

- manual|auto

Tool coverage
PreToolUse and PostToolUse can observe more than shell and MCP calls. Most
local function tools use the same hook path, so you can match their tool name,
inspect their JSON arguments, and, for PreToolUse , block or rewrite the call.
Tool path PreToolUse PostToolUse Notes
Shell commands Yes Yes Match as Bash .
Unified exec ( exec_command ) Yes Yes Match as Bash . A later write_stdin poll can deliver the original command’s PostToolUse when that command finishes.
apply_patch Yes Yes Match as apply_patch , Edit , or Write .
MCP tools Yes Yes Match the MCP tool name, such as mcp__filesystem__read_file .
Other local function tools Yes Yes Match the function tool name, such as update_plan . spawn_agent also matches Agent .
Hosted tools, such as WebSearch No No These don’t use the local function-tool hook path.
write_stdin is transport for an existing unified-exec session. It doesn’t run PreToolUse again when it sends input or polls a command that already passed PreToolUse .
Some specialized tool paths can opt out of the default hook path. Treat tool
hooks as a useful guardrail, not a complete enforcement boundary.

Common input fields
Every command hook receives one JSON object on stdin .
These are the shared fields you will usually use:
Field Type Meaning
session_id string Current Codex session id. Subagent hooks use the parent session id.
transcript_path string | null Path to the session transcript file, if any
cwd string Working directory for the session
hook_event_name string Current hook event name
model string Codex-specific extension. Active model slug
Turn-scoped hooks list turn_id as a Codex-specific extension in their
event-specific tables.
SessionStart , PreToolUse , PermissionRequest , PostToolUse , UserPromptSubmit , SubagentStart , SubagentStop , and Stop also include permission_mode , which describes the current permission mode as default , acceptEdits , plan , dontAsk , or bypassPermissions .
transcript_path points to a chat transcript for convenience, but the
transcript format isn’t a stable interface for hooks and may change over time.
If you need the full wire format, see Schemas .

Common output fields
SessionStart , PreCompact , PostCompact , UserPromptSubmit , SubagentStop , and Stop support these shared JSON fields. SubagentStart accepts the same shape for systemMessage and hook-specific context, but continue: false doesn’t stop the subagent:
{ "continue" : true , "stopReason" : "optional" , "systemMessage" : "optional" , "suppressOutput" : false }
Field Effect
continue If false , marks that hook run as stopped
stopReason Recorded as the reason for stopping
systemMessage Surfaced as a warning in the UI or event stream
suppressOutput Parsed today but not yet implemented
Exit 0 with no output is treated as success and Codex continues.
PreToolUse and PermissionRequest support systemMessage , but continue , stopReason , and suppressOutput aren’t currently supported for those events.
If a PreToolUse hook returns one of those unsupported fields, Codex marks
that hook run as failed, reports the error, and continues the tool call.
PostToolUse supports systemMessage , continue: false , and stopReason . suppressOutput is parsed but not currently supported for that event.

Large hook output
Codex limits each model-visible hook-output message to roughly 2,500 tokens.
If a hook returns more, Codex saves the full text under <temp_dir>/hook_outputs/<session_id>/<uuid>.txt and gives the model a
head-and-tail preview with the saved-file path. If the file can’t be written,
the model still receives a truncated preview.
This applies to additional context from SessionStart , SubagentStart , PreToolUse , PostToolUse , and UserPromptSubmit , feedback from PostToolUse , and continuation prompts from Stop and SubagentStop . The
limit applies to each additional-context entry or continuation prompt. For PostToolUse feedback, Codex combines feedback from all matching hooks and
applies the limit to the combined message.
Because oversized output can be written to disk, avoid returning secrets or
other sensitive data in hook output.

Hooks

SessionStart
matcher is applied to source for this event.
Fields in addition to Common input fields :
Field Type Meaning
source string How the session started: startup , resume , clear , or compact
Plain text on stdout is added as extra developer context.
JSON on stdout supports Common output fields and this
hook-specific shape:
{ "hookSpecificOutput" : { "hookEventName" : "SessionStart" , "additionalContext" : "Load the workspace conventions before editing." } }
That additionalContext text is added as extra developer context.

SubagentStart
matcher is applied to agent_type for this event.
Fields in addition to Common input fields :
Field Type Meaning
turn_id string Codex-specific extension. Active Codex turn id
agent_id string Identifier for the subagent
agent_type string Subagent type or profile
permission_mode string Current permission mode
Plain text on stdout is added as extra developer context for the subagent.
JSON on stdout supports systemMessage and this hook-specific shape:
{ "hookSpecificOutput" : { "hookEventName" : "SubagentStart" , "additionalContext" : "Review the repository test conventions first." } }
That additionalContext text is added as extra developer context for the
subagent. continue: false is parsed for compatibility, but it doesn’t stop the
subagent from starting.

PreToolUse
PreToolUse can intercept Bash, file edits performed through apply_patch ,
MCP tool calls, and other local function tools. See Tool
coverage for the supported paths and exceptions.
matcher is applied to tool_name and matcher aliases. For file edits through apply_patch , matcher values can use apply_patch , Edit , or Write ; hook input
still reports tool_name: "apply_patch" .
Fields in addition to Common input fields :
Field Type Meaning
turn_id string Codex-specific extension. Active Codex turn id
tool_name string Canonical hook tool name, such as Bash , apply_patch , or an MCP name like mcp__fs__read
tool_use_id string Tool-call id for this invocation
tool_input JSON value Tool-specific input. Bash and apply_patch use tool_input.command . MCP and other local function tools send their arguments.
Plain text on stdout is ignored.
JSON on stdout can use systemMessage . To deny a supported tool call, return
this hook-specific shape:
{ "hookSpecificOutput" : { "hookEventName" : "PreToolUse" , "permissionDecision" : "deny" , "permissionDecisionReason" : "Destructive command blocked by hook." } }
Codex also accepts this older block shape:
{ "decision" : "block" , "reason" : "Destructive command blocked by hook." }
You can also use exit code 2 and write the blocking reason to stderr .
To add model-visible context without blocking, return hookSpecificOutput.additionalContext :
{ "hookSpecificOutput" : { "hookEventName" : "PreToolUse" , "additionalContext" : "The pending command touches generated files." } }
To rewrite a supported tool call without blocking, return permissionDecision: "allow" with updatedInput :
{ "hookSpecificOutput" : { "hookEventName" : "PreToolUse" , "permissionDecision" : "allow" , "updatedInput" : { "command" : "echo rewritten" } } }
For Bash commands and apply_patch , updatedInput must include a string command field. For MCP and other local function tools, updatedInput is the
replacement arguments object. Return updatedInput only with permissionDecision: "allow" ; other updatedInput shapes are reported as
errors.
permissionDecision: "ask" , legacy decision: "approve" , continue: false , stopReason , and suppressOutput are parsed but not supported yet. Codex marks
the hook run as failed, reports the error, and continues the tool call.

PermissionRequest
PermissionRequest runs when Codex is about to ask for approval, such as a
shell escalation or managed-network approval. It can allow the request, deny
the request, or decline to decide and let the normal approval prompt continue.
It doesn’t run for commands that don’t need approval.
matcher is applied to tool_name and matcher aliases. Current canonical
values include Bash , apply_patch , and MCP tool names such as mcp__server__tool ; apply_patch also matches Edit and Write .
Fields in addition to Common input fields :
Field Type Meaning
turn_id string Codex-specific extension. Active Codex turn id
tool_name string Canonical hook tool name, such as Bash , apply_patch , or an MCP name like mcp__fs__read
tool_input JSON value Tool-specific input. Bash and apply_patch use tool_input.command while MCP tools send all the arguments.
tool_input.description string | null Human-readable approval reason, when Codex has one
Plain text on stdout is ignored.
Some tool inputs may include a human-readable description, but don’t rely on a tool_input.description field for every tool.
To approve the request, return:
{ "hookSpecificOutput" : { "hookEventName" : "PermissionRequest" , "decision" : { "behavior" : "allow" } } }
To deny the request, return:
{ "hookSpecificOutput" : { "hookEventName" : "PermissionRequest" , "decision" : { "behavior" : "deny" , "message" : "Blocked by repository policy." } } }
If multiple matching hooks return decisions, any deny wins. Otherwise, an allow lets the request proceed without surfacing the approval prompt. If no
matching hook decides, Codex uses the normal approval flow.
Don’t return updatedInput , updatedPermissions , or interrupt for PermissionRequest ; those fields are reserved for future behavior and fail
closed today.

PostToolUse
PostToolUse runs after supported tools produce output, including Bash, apply_patch , MCP tool calls, and other local function tools. For Bash, it
also runs after commands that exit with a non-zero status. It can’t undo side
effects from a tool that already ran. See Tool coverage for
the supported paths and exceptions.
matcher is applied to tool_name and matcher aliases. For file edits through apply_patch , matcher values can use apply_patch , Edit , or Write ; hook input
still reports tool_name: "apply_patch" .
Fields in addition to Common input fields :
Field Type Meaning
turn_id string Codex-specific extension. Active Codex turn id
tool_name string Canonical hook tool name, such as Bash , apply_patch , or an MCP name like mcp__fs__read
tool_use_id string Tool-call id for this invocation
tool_input JSON value Tool-specific input. Bash and apply_patch use tool_input.command . MCP and other local function tools send their arguments.
tool_response JSON value Tool-specific output. MCP tools send the MCP call result. Other local function tools normally send their model-facing output.
Plain text on stdout is ignored.
JSON on stdout can use systemMessage and this hook-specific shape:
{ "decision" : "block" , "reason" : "The Bash output needs review before continuing." , "hookSpecificOutput" : { "hookEventName" : "PostToolUse" , "additionalContext" : "The command updated generated files." } }
That additionalContext text is added as extra developer context.
For this event, decision: "block" doesn’t undo the completed Bash command.
Instead, Codex records the feedback, replaces the tool result with that
feedback, and continues the model from the hook-provided message.
You can also use exit code 2 and write the feedback reason to stderr .
To stop normal processing of the original tool result after the command has
already run, return continue: false . Codex will replace the tool result with
your feedback or stop text and continue from there.
updatedMCPToolOutput and suppressOutput are parsed but not supported yet.
Codex marks the hook run as failed, reports the error, and continues normal
processing of the tool result.

Tool calls from code mode
When a model uses code mode to call a tool from JavaScript, hook decisions apply
to that nested call. PreToolUse can stop the tool before it runs or rewrite
its input. A blocking PostToolUse can’t undo the tool’s side effects, but it
can keep the original result from reaching the running script.
Hook result What code mode sees
PreToolUse blocks The tool promise rejects before the tool runs.
PreToolUse returns updatedInput The tool runs with the rewritten input and the promise resolves with that result.
PostToolUse returns decision: "block" or exits with code 2 The tool runs, then the promise rejects with the hook reason.
PostToolUse returns continue: false Codex uses the hook feedback for the model-visible result, but doesn’t reject the nested tool promise.

PreCompact
PreCompact runs before Codex compacts the chat. matcher is applied
to trigger , whose values are manual and auto .
Fields in addition to Common input fields :
Field Type Meaning
turn_id string Codex-specific extension. Active Codex turn id
trigger string What triggered compaction: manual or auto
Plain text on stdout is ignored.
JSON on stdout supports Common output fields . If a
matching PreCompact hook returns continue: false , Codex stops before
compacting.

PostCompact
PostCompact runs after Codex compacts the chat. matcher is applied
to trigger , whose values are manual and auto .
Fields in addition to Common input fields :
Field Type Meaning
turn_id string Codex-specific extension. Active Codex turn id
trigger string What triggered compaction: manual or auto
Plain text on stdout is ignored.
JSON on stdout supports Common output fields . If a
matching PostCompact hook returns continue: false , Codex stops after
compacting.

UserPromptSubmit
matcher isn’t currently used for this event.
Fields in addition to Common input fields :
Field Type Meaning
turn_id string Codex-specific extension. Active Codex turn id
prompt string User prompt that’s about to be sent
Plain text on stdout is added as extra developer context.
JSON on stdout supports Common output fields and
this hook-specific shape:
{ "hookSpecificOutput" : { "hookEventName" : "UserPromptSubmit" , "additionalContext" : "Ask for a clearer reproduction before editing files." } }
That additionalContext text is added as extra developer context.
To block the prompt, return:
{ "decision" : "block" , "reason" : "Ask for confirmation before doing that." }
You can also use exit code 2 and write the blocking reason to stderr .

SubagentStop
matcher is applied to agent_type for this event.
Fields in addition to Common input fields :
Field Type Meaning
turn_id string Codex-specific extension. Active Codex turn id
agent_id string Identifier for the subagent
agent_type string Subagent type or profile
agent_transcript_path string | null Path to the subagent transcript file, if any
stop_hook_active boolean Whether this subagent was already continued
last_assistant_message string | null Latest subagent assistant message, if available
SubagentStop expects JSON on stdout when it exits 0 . Plain text output is
invalid for this event.
JSON on stdout supports Common output fields . To ask
Codex to continue the subagent flow, return:
{ "decision" : "block" , "reason" : "Run one more focused pass inside the subagent." }
You can also use exit code 2 and write the continuation reason to stderr .
If any matching SubagentStop hook returns continue: false , that takes
precedence over continuation decisions from other matching SubagentStop hooks.

Stop
matcher isn’t currently used for this event.
Fields in addition to Common input fields :
Field Type Meaning
turn_id string Codex-specific extension. Active Codex turn id
stop_hook_active boolean Whether this turn was already continued by Stop
last_assistant_message string | null Latest assistant message text, if available
Stop expects JSON on stdout when it exits 0 . Plain text output is invalid
for this event.
JSON on stdout supports Common output fields . To keep
Codex going, return:
{ "decision" : "block" , "reason" : "Run one more pass over the failing tests." }
You can also use exit code 2 and write the continuation reason to stderr .
For this event, decision: "block" doesn’t reject the turn. Instead, it tells
Codex to continue and automatically creates a new continuation prompt that acts
as a new user prompt, using your reason as that prompt text.
If any matching Stop hook returns continue: false , that takes precedence
over continuation decisions from other matching Stop hooks.

Schemas
The linked main branch schemas may include hook fields that are not in the
current release. Use this page as the release behavior reference.
If you need the exact current wire format, see the generated schemas in the Codex GitHub repository .


──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
<!-- source: https://learn.chatgpt.com/docs/extend/mcp -->
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Model Context Protocol (MCP) connects models to tools and context. Use it to
give ChatGPT or Codex access to third-party documentation, or to let it
interact with developer tools like your browser or Figma.
ChatGPT web can use remote MCP-backed tools supplied by plugins. Local Codex
clients can also connect directly to MCP servers and share their configuration.
The ChatGPT desktop app, Codex CLI, and IDE extension support MCP servers and
share MCP configuration for the same Codex host.
The supported server features below apply to MCP servers configured on a Codex
host. Hosted plugin tools can have different capabilities.

Supported MCP features

- STDIO servers : Servers that run as a local process (started by a command).

- Environment variables

- Streamable HTTP servers : Servers that you access at an address.

- Bearer token authentication

- OAuth authentication

- ChatGPT session authentication for trusted first-party servers

- Server instructions : Codex reads the MCP instructions field returned during initialization and uses it as server-wide guidance alongside the server’s tools.
If you build or maintain an MCP server for Codex, use instructions for cross-tool workflows, constraints, and rate limits that apply across the server. Keep the first 512 characters self-contained so the most important guidance is available when Codex is deciding how to use the server.

Connect Codex to an MCP server
Codex stores MCP configuration in config.toml alongside other Codex configuration settings. By default this is ~/.codex/config.toml , but you can also scope MCP servers to a project with .codex/config.toml (trusted projects only).
The ChatGPT desktop app, Codex CLI, and IDE extension share this configuration.
Once you configure your MCP servers, you can switch among those clients without
redoing setup.

Configure in the ChatGPT desktop app

- Open Settings , then select MCP servers .

- Select Add server .

- Enter a name, choose STDIO or Streamable HTTP , and provide the
server’s command or URL.

- Save the server, then select Restart .
The server list shows which servers are enabled and which require OAuth. Select Authenticate when an OAuth server requires sign-in. In the composer, type /mcp to view connected servers.

Use MCP-backed tools in ChatGPT web
In a hosted chat in Work mode, install a plugin to use
its bundled connectors and remote MCP tools. Workspace administrators can
control which plugins and tools are available.
ChatGPT web doesn’t read local Codex configuration files or expose the local
Codex command menu. Browse and manage available tools through Plugins in
Work mode in ChatGPT.

Configure with the CLI

Add an MCP server
codex mcp add < server-nam e > --env VAR1=VALUE1 --env VAR2=VALUE2 -- < stdio server-comman d >
For example, to add Context7 (a free MCP server for developer documentation), you can run the following command:
codex mcp add context7 -- npx -y @upstash/context7-mcp

Other CLI commands
Run codex mcp list to see configured servers. To see all available MCP
commands, run codex mcp --help . For a server that supports OAuth, run codex mcp login <server-name> .

Terminal UI (TUI)
In the codex TUI, use /mcp to see your active MCP servers.

Configure in the IDE extension

- Open the gear menu, then select MCP servers .

- Select Add server .

- Enter a name, choose STDIO or Streamable HTTP , and provide the
server’s command or URL.

- Save the server, then select Restart extension .
The MCP server list shows which servers are enabled and which require OAuth.
Select Authenticate when an OAuth server requires sign-in.

Configure with config.toml
For more fine-grained control, edit ~/.codex/config.toml or a project-scoped .codex/config.toml . See the configuration reference for a searchable list of every supported MCP option.
Configure each MCP server with a [mcp_servers.<server-name>] table in the configuration file.

STDIO servers

- command (required): The command that starts the server.

- args (optional): Arguments to pass to the server.

- env (optional): Environment variables to set for the server.

- env_vars (optional): Environment variables to allow and forward.

- cwd (optional): Working directory to start the server from.

- experimental_environment (optional): Set to remote to start the stdio
server through a remote executor environment when one is available.
env_vars can contain plain variable names or objects with a source:
env_vars = [ "LOCAL_TOKEN" , { name = "REMOTE_TOKEN" , source = "remote" }]
String entries and source = "local" read from Codex’s local environment. source = "remote" reads from the remote executor environment and requires
remote MCP stdio.

Streamable HTTP servers

- url (required): The server address.

- auth (optional): Authentication to try after configured bearer tokens and
authorization headers. Use oauth (the default) for stored MCP OAuth
credentials. Use chatgpt to use the current ChatGPT session for the trusted
first-party ChatGPT origin, with stored OAuth as a fallback.

- bearer_token_env_var (optional): Environment variable name for a bearer token to send in Authorization .

- http_headers (optional): Map of header names to static values.

- env_http_headers (optional): Map of header names to environment variable names (values pulled from the environment).
If no credential source resolves, Codex can connect to the server without
authentication. Run codex mcp login <server-name> separately to start an MCP
OAuth login.

Other configuration options

- startup_timeout_sec (optional): Timeout (seconds) for the server to start. Default: 10 .

- tool_timeout_sec (optional): Timeout (seconds) for the server to run a tool. Default: 60 .

- enabled (optional): Set false to disable a server without deleting it.

- required (optional): Set true to make startup fail if this enabled server can’t initialize.

- enabled_tools (optional): Tool allow list.

- disabled_tools (optional): Tool deny list (applied after enabled_tools ).

- default_tools_approval_mode (optional): Default approval behavior for
tools from this server. Supported values are auto , prompt , writes , and approve . The writes mode prompts for tools that aren’t marked read-only.

- tools.<tool>.approval_mode (optional): Per-tool approval behavior override.
If your OAuth provider requires a fixed callback port, set the top-level mcp_oauth_callback_port in config.toml . If unset, Codex binds to an ephemeral port.
If your MCP OAuth flow must use a specific callback URL (for example, a remote Devbox ingress URL or a custom callback path), set mcp_oauth_callback_url . Codex uses this value as the base callback URL, then appends a server-specific callback ID to produce the OAuth redirect_uri it sends during login. Register the full derived redirect_uri with your OAuth provider, including the appended callback ID and any configured path, query, or port, rather than registering only the base host or path without that suffix. Local callback URLs (for example localhost ) bind on the local interface; non-local callback URLs bind on 0.0.0.0 so the callback can reach the host.
If the MCP server advertises scopes_supported , Codex prefers those
server-advertised scopes during OAuth login. Otherwise, Codex falls back to the
scopes configured in config.toml .

config.toml examples
[ mcp_servers . context7 ] command = "npx" args = [ "-y" , "@upstash/context7-mcp" ] env_vars = [ "LOCAL_TOKEN" ] [ mcp_servers . context7 . env ] MY_ENV_VAR = "MY_ENV_VALUE"
# Optional MCP OAuth callback overrides (used by `codex mcp login`) mcp_oauth_callback_port = 5555 mcp_oauth_callback_url = "https://devbox.example.internal/callback"
[ mcp_servers . figma ] url = "https://mcp.figma.com/mcp" bearer_token_env_var = "FIGMA_OAUTH_TOKEN" http_headers = { "X-Figma-Region" = "us-east-1" }
[ mcp_servers . chrome_devtools ] url = "http://localhost:3000/mcp" enabled_tools = [ "open" , "screenshot" ] disabled_tools = [ "screenshot" ] # applied after enabled_tools default_tools_approval_mode = "prompt" startup_timeout_sec = 20 tool_timeout_sec = 45 enabled = true [ mcp_servers . chrome_devtools . tools . open ] approval_mode = "approve"

Plugin-provided MCP servers
Installed plugins can bundle MCP servers in their plugin manifest. Those
servers are launched from the plugin, so user config doesn’t set their
transport command. User config can still control on/off state and tool policy
under plugins.<plugin>.mcp_servers.<server> .
[ plugins . "sample@test" . mcp_servers . sample ] enabled = true default_tools_approval_mode = "prompt" enabled_tools = [ "read" , "search" ] [ plugins . "sample@test" . mcp_servers . sample . tools . search ] approval_mode = "approve"

Examples of useful MCP servers
The list of MCP servers keeps growing. Here are a few common ones:

- OpenAI Docs MCP : Search and read OpenAI developer docs.

- Context7 : Connect to up-to-date developer documentation.

- Figma Local and Remote : Access your Figma designs.

- Playwright : Control and inspect a browser using Playwright.

- Chrome Developer Tools : Control and inspect Chrome.

- Sentry : Access Sentry logs.

- GitHub : Manage GitHub beyond what git supports (for example, pull requests and issues).


──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
<!-- source: https://learn.chatgpt.com/docs/agent-configuration/subagents -->
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Work mode and Codex can run subagent workflows by spawning specialized
agents in parallel and then collecting their results in one response. This can
be particularly helpful for complex tasks that are highly parallel, such as
codebase exploration or implementing a multi-step feature plan.
In local Codex clients, you can also define custom agents with different model
configurations and instructions for different tasks.

Availability
Work mode exposes subagent workflows and activity to eligible accounts.
Current Codex releases enable subagent workflows by default. Subagent activity
appears in the ChatGPT desktop app, Codex CLI, and the IDE extension.
Because each subagent does its own model and tool work, subagent workflows
consume more tokens than comparable single-agent runs.
In Work mode, ask ChatGPT to delegate independent work to subagents. The
agents run in ChatGPT’s hosted environment, and the chat shows their
activity and results. At most intelligence levels, ask for delegation
explicitly. With Ultra, ChatGPT can proactively delegate work when parallel
agents would materially improve speed or quality.
Ask Codex in an app chat to delegate independent parts of the work to
subagents. Current local Codex releases delegate when you ask directly or when
applicable AGENTS.md or skill instructions request it. The app surfaces each
subagent thread so you can inspect its work and the summary returned to the main
chat.
Ask Codex in an interactive CLI session to use subagents. Codex can also follow
applicable AGENTS.md or skill instructions that request delegation. Use /agent to inspect and switch between agent threads while they run. The main
thread collects the subagent results into its final response.
Ask Codex in an IDE chat to delegate independent parts of the work to subagents.
Codex can also follow applicable AGENTS.md or skill instructions that request
delegation. When the background-agent UI is available, active subagents appear
above the composer. Expand the panel to see their status, stop all active
subagents, or open an individual subagent thread.

Why subagent workflows help
Even with large context windows, models have limits. If you flood the main chat (where you’re defining requirements, constraints, and decisions) with noisy intermediate output such as exploration notes, test logs, stack traces, and command output, the session can become less reliable over time.
This is often described as:

- Context pollution : useful information gets buried under noisy intermediate output.

- Context rot : performance degrades as the chat fills up with less relevant details.
For background, see the Chroma writeup on context rot .
Subagent workflows help by moving noisy work off the main thread:

- Keep the main agent focused on requirements, decisions, and final outputs.

- Run specialized subagents in parallel for exploration, tests, or log analysis.

- Return summaries from subagents instead of raw intermediate output.
They can also save time when the work can run independently in parallel, and
they make larger-shaped tasks more tractable by breaking them into bounded
pieces. For example, Codex can split analysis of a multi-million-token
document into smaller problems and return distilled takeaways to the main
thread.
As a starting point, use parallel agents for read-heavy tasks such as
exploration, tests, triage, and summarization. Be more careful with parallel
write-heavy workflows, because agents editing code at once can create
conflicts and increase coordination overhead.

Core terms
Codex uses a few related terms in subagent workflows:

- Subagent workflow : A workflow where Codex runs parallel agents and combines their results.

- Subagent : A delegated agent that Codex starts to handle a specific task.

- Agent thread : The thread where a subagent does its work. Supported clients let you open these threads to inspect progress or results.

Triggering subagent workflows
At most intelligence levels, ask for subagents or parallel agent work
directly. Ultra enables proactive delegation, so ChatGPT can delegate suitable
independent work without a separate request.
Ask for subagents or parallel agent work directly. Codex can also delegate when
applicable project or skill instructions request it.
In practice, manual triggering means using direct instructions such as
“spawn two agents,” “delegate this work in parallel,” or “use one agent per
point.” Subagent workflows consume more tokens than comparable single-agent runs
because each subagent does its own model and tool work.
A good subagent prompt should explain how to divide the work, whether Codex
should wait for all agents before continuing, and what summary or output to
return.
Review this branch with parallel subagents. Spawn one subagent for security risks, one for test gaps, and one for maintainability. Wait for all three, then summarize the findings by category with file references.

Choosing models and reasoning
Different agents need different model and reasoning settings.
In Work mode, choose a model and an intelligence level from the composer.
Available intelligence levels can include Light , Medium , High , Extra High , and Max , depending on the selected model. Ultra is
available only to eligible accounts and supported models. It uses maximum
reasoning and lets ChatGPT proactively delegate suitable work to subagents.
At other intelligence levels, ask for subagents explicitly when you want work
delegated in parallel.
If you don’t pin a model or model_reasoning_effort , Codex can choose a setup
that balances intelligence, speed, and price for the task. It may favor gpt-5.6-terra for fast scans or a higher-effort gpt-5.6 configuration for more demanding reasoning. When you want finer control, steer that choice in your prompt or set model and model_reasoning_effort directly in the agent file.
For most tasks in Codex, start with gpt-5.6 . Use gpt-5.6-terra when you want
a faster, lower-cost option for lighter subagent work.

Model choice

- gpt-5.6 : Start here for demanding agents. It’s strongest for ambiguous, multi-step work that needs planning, tool use, validation, and follow-through across a larger context.

- gpt-5.4 : Use this when a workflow is pinned to GPT-5.4. It combines strong coding, reasoning, tool use, and broader workflows.

- gpt-5.6-terra : Use for agents that favor speed and efficiency over depth, such as exploration, read-heavy scans, large-file review, or processing supporting documents. It works well for parallel workers that return distilled results to the main agent.

Reasoning effort ( model_reasoning_effort )

- ultra : Use for the deepest reasoning when the selected model supports
it.

- max and xhigh : Use for especially demanding reasoning when the
selected model supports these levels.

- high : Use when an agent needs to trace complex logic, check assumptions, or work through edge cases (for example, reviewer or security-focused agents).

- medium : A balanced default for most agents.

- low : Use when the task is straightforward and speed matters most.
Higher reasoning effort increases response time and token usage, but it can improve quality for complex work. For details, see Models , Config basics , and Configuration Reference .

Orchestration and thread controls
ChatGPT or Codex handles orchestration across agents, including spawning new
subagents, routing follow-up instructions, waiting for results, and closing
agent threads.
When many agents are running, Codex waits until all requested results are
available, then returns a consolidated response.
At most intelligence levels, ChatGPT spawns agents after a direct request. With
Ultra, ChatGPT can also delegate proactively when parallel work is useful.
Current local Codex releases spawn agents after a direct request or applicable
project or skill instruction.
To see it in action, try the following prompt on your project:
I would like to review the following points on the current PR (this branch vs main). Spawn one agent per point, wait for all of them, and summarize the result for each point. 1. Security issue 2. Code quality 3. Bugs 4. Race 5. Test flakiness 6. Maintainability of the code

Managing subagents
Open Subagents to see read-only Active and Done lists. Select a
completed subagent to inspect its details and result. The web sidebar reports
subagent activity; it doesn’t provide controls to stop or steer an individual
subagent.

- Open a subagent thread from the activity shown in the main thread to inspect
its work.

- Ask Codex directly to steer a running subagent, stop it, or close completed
subagent threads.
Report checklist Presentation checklist started working

Active
No active subagents

Done · 3

- Model api audit 2m
Audit complete; no endpoint compatibility issues were found.

- Package audit 3m
Safest workflow is a focused dependency update.

- Landing audit 4m
Audit complete; no final layout blockers remain.

- Use /agent in the CLI to switch between active agent threads and inspect the ongoing thread.

- Ask Codex directly to steer a running subagent, stop it, or close completed agent threads.

- When the background-agent panel is available, expand it to inspect status,
stop active subagents, or open a subagent thread.

- Ask Codex directly to steer a running subagent, stop it, or close completed
subagent threads.

Approvals and sandbox controls
Subagents inherit your current sandbox policy.
Work mode runs subagents in its hosted environment and doesn’t expose a
local Codex sandbox or approval-mode control. Subagents use the tools available
to the parent chat. Website and connector permissions remain
tool-specific.
Subagents inherit the permission mode selected beneath the composer. Choose the
permission mode for the parent turn before you ask Codex to delegate work.
In interactive CLI sessions, approval requests can surface from inactive agent
threads even while you are looking at the main thread. The approval overlay
shows the source thread label, and you can press o to open that thread before
you approve, reject, or answer the request.
In non-interactive flows, or whenever a run can’t surface a fresh approval, an
action that needs new approval fails and Codex surfaces the error back to the
parent workflow.
Codex also reapplies the parent turn’s live runtime overrides when it spawns a
child. That includes sandbox and approval choices you set interactively during
the session, such as /permissions changes or --yolo , even if the selected
custom agent file sets different defaults.
Subagents inherit the permission mode selected beneath the composer. Choose
the permission mode for the parent turn before you ask Codex to delegate work.
You can also override the sandbox configuration for individual custom agents , such as explicitly marking one to work in read-only mode.

Custom agents
Codex ships with built-in agents:

- default : general-purpose fallback agent.

- worker : execution-focused agent for implementation and fixes.

- explorer : read-heavy codebase exploration agent.
To define your own custom agents, add standalone TOML files under ~/.codex/agents/ for personal agents or .codex/agents/ for project-scoped
agents.
Each file defines one custom agent. Codex loads these files as configuration
layers for spawned sessions, so custom agents can override the same settings as
a normal Codex session config. That can feel heavier than a dedicated agent
manifest, and the format may evolve as authoring and sharing mature.
Every standalone custom agent file must define:

- name

- description

- developer_instructions
If a custom agent file sets model or model_reasoning_effort , the value in
the file takes precedence. Otherwise, Codex resolves each setting independently:
an explicit spawn value, then the corresponding [agents] default, then the
parent’s value. If a spawn selects a different model and neither an explicit nor
configured effort is present, Codex uses that model’s default effort. Other
session settings, such as sandbox_mode , mcp_servers , and skills.config ,
inherit from the parent when the custom agent file omits them.

Global settings
Global subagent settings still live under [agents] in your configuration .
Field Type Required Purpose
agents.enabled boolean No Enable or disable multi-agent tools.
agents.max_concurrent_threads_per_session number No Cap concurrently open spawned-agent threads, excluding the primary.
agents.default_subagent_model string No Set the default model for spawned agents.
agents.default_subagent_reasoning_effort string No Set the default reasoning effort for spawned agents.
agents.interrupt_message boolean No Record a model-visible message when an agent turn is interrupted.
Notes:

- agents.enabled defaults to true . Set it to false to disable multi-agent tools.

- When you leave agents.max_concurrent_threads_per_session unset, Codex chooses the default. Existing configurations can keep using agents.max_threads as a legacy alias.

- Explicit spawn values override agents.default_subagent_model and agents.default_subagent_reasoning_effort .

- agents.interrupt_message defaults to true . Set it to false to omit the model-visible interruption message from the agent’s context.

- If a custom agent name matches a built-in agent such as explorer , your custom agent takes precedence.

Custom agent file schema
Field Type Required Purpose
name string Yes Agent name Codex uses when spawning or referring to this agent.
description string Yes Human-facing guidance for when Codex should use this agent.
developer_instructions string Yes Core instructions that define the agent’s behavior.
You can also include other supported config.toml keys in a custom agent file, such as model , model_reasoning_effort , sandbox_mode , mcp_servers , and skills.config .
Codex identifies the custom agent by its name field. Matching the filename to
the agent name is the simplest convention, but the name field is the source
of truth.

Example custom agents
The best custom agents are narrow and opinionated. Give each one clear job, a
tool surface that matches that job, and instructions that keep it from
drifting into adjacent work.

Example 1: PR review
This pattern splits review across three focused custom agents:

- pr_explorer maps the codebase and gathers evidence.

- reviewer looks for correctness, security, and test risks.

- docs_researcher checks framework or API documentation through a dedicated MCP server.
Project config ( .codex/config.toml ):
[ agents ] max_concurrent_threads_per_session = 8
.codex/agents/pr-explorer.toml :
name = "pr_explorer" description = "Read-only codebase explorer for gathering evidence before changes are proposed." model = "gpt-5.3-codex-spark" model_reasoning_effort = "medium" sandbox_mode = "read-only" developer_instructions = """ Stay in exploration mode. Trace the real execution path, cite files and symbols, and avoid proposing fixes unless the parent agent asks for them. Prefer fast search and targeted file reads over broad scans. """
.codex/agents/reviewer.toml :
name = "reviewer" description = "PR reviewer focused on correctness, security, and missing tests." model = "gpt-5.4" model_reasoning_effort = "high" sandbox_mode = "read-only" developer_instructions = """ Review code like an owner. Prioritize correctness, security, behavior regressions, and missing test coverage. Lead with concrete findings, include reproduction steps when possible, and avoid style-only comments unless they hide a real bug. """
.codex/agents/docs-researcher.toml :
name = "docs_researcher" description = "Documentation specialist that uses the docs MCP server to verify APIs and framework behavior." model = "gpt-5.4-mini" model_reasoning_effort = "medium" sandbox_mode = "read-only" developer_instructions = """ Use the docs MCP server to confirm APIs, options, and version-specific behavior. Return concise answers with links or exact references when available. Do not make code changes. """ [ mcp_servers . openaiDeveloperDocs ] url = "https://developers.openai.com/mcp"
This setup works well for prompts like:
Review this branch against main. Have pr_explorer map the affected code paths, reviewer find real risks, and docs_researcher verify the framework APIs that the patch relies on.

Example 2: Frontend integration debugging
This pattern is useful for UI regressions, flaky browser flows, or integration bugs that cross application code and the running product.
Project config ( .codex/config.toml ):
[ agents ] max_concurrent_threads_per_session = 6
.codex/agents/code-mapper.toml :
name = "code_mapper" description = "Read-only codebase explorer for locating the relevant frontend and backend code paths." model = "gpt-5.4-mini" model_reasoning_effort = "medium" sandbox_mode = "read-only" developer_instructions = """ Map the code that owns the failing UI flow. Identify entry points, state transitions, and likely files before the worker starts editing. """
.codex/agents/browser-debugger.toml :
name = "browser_debugger" description = "UI debugger that uses browser tooling to reproduce issues and capture evidence." model = "gpt-5.4" model_reasoning_effort = "high" sandbox_mode = "workspace-write" developer_instructions = """ Reproduce the issue in the browser, capture exact steps, and report what the UI actually does. Use browser tooling for screenshots, console output, and network evidence. Do not edit application code. """ [ mcp_servers . chrome_devtools ] url = "http://localhost:3000/mcp" startup_timeout_sec = 20
.codex/agents/ui-fixer.toml :
name = "ui_fixer" description = "Implementation-focused agent for small, targeted fixes after the issue is understood." model = "gpt-5.3-codex-spark" model_reasoning_effort = "medium" developer_instructions = """ Own the fix once the issue is reproduced. Make the smallest defensible change, keep unrelated files untouched, and validate only the behavior you changed. """ [[ skills . config ]] path = "/Users/me/.agents/skills/docs-editor/SKILL.md" enabled = false
This setup works well for prompts like:
Investigate why the settings modal fails to save. Have browser_debugger reproduce it, code_mapper trace the responsible code path, and ui_fixer implement the smallest fix once the failure mode is clear.


──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
<!-- source: https://learn.chatgpt.com/docs/automations -->
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Schedule recurring tasks to run in the background. Review active, paused, and
completed tasks and recent runs in Scheduled . You can combine scheduled
tasks with skills for more complex work.
In the ChatGPT desktop app, scheduled tasks can work with local projects and
run in the project directory or an isolated worktree. Keep the computer on and
the app running when a scheduled task needs local files.
When scheduled tasks are enabled for your workspace, create them from Chat or
Work mode in ChatGPT web and manage their runs from Scheduled . Web tasks
can use uploaded context and connected tools, but they can’t work directly in
a folder on your computer.
Codex CLI doesn’t provide the Scheduled management interface. Use ChatGPT web
or the desktop app to create and manage scheduled tasks. The CLI can help you
prepare and test a prompt, skill, or script first.
The IDE extension doesn’t provide the Scheduled management interface. Use
ChatGPT web or the desktop app to create and manage scheduled tasks. The IDE
extension can help you prepare and test a prompt, skill, or workspace change
first.

Manage scheduled tasks on the web
Open Scheduled to review task status and recent runs. Use a standalone scheduled task
when each run should start from the saved prompt. Use a scheduled task in a
chat when you want ChatGPT to return to the same chat with its existing
context.
Scheduled tasks on the web can use uploaded files, connected tools, skills, and
plugins available to that chat. They don’t keep a local folder or
worktree available between runs. Put durable instructions in the task prompt
or an attached skill, and keep required source material in an accessible
project, upload, or connected service.
Before you schedule a task, test its prompt in a regular web chat.
Review the first few runs, then adjust the prompt, tools, or cadence if the
results are too broad or need additional context.
For example, schedule a task to evaluate telemetry errors and submit fixes,
or to create reports about recent codebase changes. For ongoing work that
should keep using the same context, schedule a task inside an existing chat .
For project-scoped scheduled tasks, keep the machine powered on and the ChatGPT
desktop app running. The selected project must still be available on disk when
the task is scheduled to run.
In Git repositories, you can choose whether a scheduled task runs in your local
project or on a new worktree . Both options run in the
background. Worktrees keep changes from scheduled tasks separate from unfinished local
work, while running in your local project can modify files you are still
working on. In non-version-controlled projects, scheduled tasks run directly in the
project directory.
You can also leave the model and reasoning effort on their default settings, or
choose them explicitly if you want more control over how the scheduled task runs.

What should we work on?
sample-project Approve for me Plugins
Let's set up a scheduled task together. First, explain how scheduled tasks work in ChatGPT. Then interview me to figure out what I need scheduled and when it should run.
Work Chat
5.6 Sol Extended
Scheduled tasks run unattended with your default sandbox settings. Start with the
narrowest access that lets the task succeed, and grant network or broader file
access only when required. Understand sandboxing .

Manage scheduled tasks
Find all scheduled tasks and their runs on Scheduled in the ChatGPT desktop
app sidebar.
The Scheduled view acts as your inbox. Scheduled task runs with findings
appear there, and an unread indicator shows when a run needs your attention.

Scheduled tasks
Ask ChatGPT to schedule tasks, set reminders, or monitor for updates
Search scheduled tasks
All Active Paused
Mark all as read

- Daily inbox summary Every weekday at 8:00 AM · Next run in 16 hours

- Weekly project update Fridays at 4:00 PM · Next run in 2 days

- Meeting follow-up reminders Daily at 5:00 PM · Next run in 4 hours
Standalone scheduled tasks start a new chat for each scheduled run and report
results in Scheduled . Use them when each run should be independent or when one
scheduled task should run across one or more projects. If you need a custom
cadence, use the custom schedule controls. For an advanced schedule, edit its
RFC 5545 recurrence rule (RRULE), such as RRULE:FREQ=MONTHLY;BYMONTHDAY=1;BYHOUR=9;BYMINUTE=0 .
For Git repositories, each scheduled task can run either in your local project or
on a dedicated background worktree . Use
worktrees when you want to isolate scheduled-task changes from unfinished local
work. Use local mode when you want the scheduled task to work directly in your main
checkout, keeping in mind that it can change files you are actively editing.
In non-version-controlled projects, scheduled tasks run directly in the project
directory. You can have the same scheduled task run on more than one project.
Scheduled tasks in Work mode on the web, or in Work mode or Codex in the ChatGPT
desktop app, can use plugins. Scheduled tasks can also use skills. To keep scheduled
tasks maintainable and shareable across teams, use skills to
define the action and provide tools and context. Select or invoke a specific
skill in the task prompt when the workflow shouldn’t rely on automatic tool
selection.

Ask ChatGPT to create or update scheduled tasks
You can create and update scheduled tasks from a ChatGPT or Codex chat.
Describe the work, the schedule, and whether each scheduled run should return to
the current chat or start a new chat. ChatGPT can draft the prompt, choose the
right destination, and update the scheduled task when its scope or cadence
changes.
For example, ask ChatGPT to schedule a follow-up from the current chat while a
deployment finishes, or ask it to create a standalone scheduled task that checks
a project on a recurring schedule.
Skills can also create or update scheduled tasks. For example, a skill for
babysitting a pull request could set up a scheduled task that checks the
PR status with the GitHub plugin and fixes new review feedback.

Schedule a task inside a chat
Schedule a task inside an existing chat when you want ChatGPT to return to that chat
on a schedule. The scheduled task uses the chat’s existing context instead of
starting from a new prompt each time.
Scheduled tasks in a chat can use minute-based intervals for active follow-up
loops, or daily and weekly schedules when you need a check-in at a specific
time.
Schedule a task inside a chat for:

- checking a long-running operation until it finishes

- polling Slack, GitHub, or another connected source when the results should
stay in the same chat

- reminding ChatGPT to continue a review loop at a fixed cadence

- running a skill-driven workflow that uses plugins, such as checking PR status
and addressing new feedback

- continuing an ongoing research or triage chat without losing its context
Use a standalone scheduled task when each run should be independent or when
findings should appear as separate runs in Scheduled .
When you schedule a task inside a chat, make the prompt durable. It should describe
what ChatGPT should do on each scheduled run, how to decide whether there is
anything important to report, and when to stop or ask you for input.

Test scheduled tasks
Before you schedule a task, test the prompt manually in a regular chat
first. This helps you confirm:

- The prompt is clear and scoped correctly.

- The selected or default model, reasoning effort, and tools behave as expected.

- The resulting output is reviewable.
When you start scheduling runs, review the first few outputs and adjust the
prompt or cadence as needed.
In the ChatGPT desktop app, you can explicitly trigger a skill in a scheduled
task prompt by using $skill-name .

Worktree cleanup for scheduled tasks
If you choose worktrees for Git repositories, frequent schedules can create
many worktrees over time. Archive scheduled runs you no longer need, and avoid
pinning runs unless you intend to keep their worktrees.

Permissions and security model
Scheduled tasks run unattended and use your default sandbox settings.
For a plain-language explanation of these boundaries, see the sandboxing overview . For filesystem and network
rules, see Permissions .

- If your sandbox mode is read-only , tool calls fail if they require
modifying files, accessing network, or working with apps on your computer.
Consider updating sandbox settings to workspace write.

- If your sandbox mode is workspace-write , tool calls fail if they require
modifying files outside the workspace, accessing network, or working with apps
on your computer. You can selectively allowlist commands to run outside the
sandbox using rules .

- If your sandbox mode is full access , background scheduled tasks carry
elevated risk, as ChatGPT may change files, run commands, and access network
without asking. Consider updating sandbox settings to workspace write, and
using rules to selectively define which commands the agent
can run with full access.
If you are in a managed environment, admins can restrict these behaviors using
admin-enforced requirements. For example, they can disallow approval_policy = "never" or constrain allowed sandbox modes. See Admin-enforced requirements ( requirements.toml ) .
Scheduled tasks use approval_policy = "never" when your organization policy
allows it. If admin requirements disallow approval_policy = "never" ,
scheduled tasks fall back to the approval behavior of your selected permission
mode.

Examples

Automatically create new skills
Scan all of the `~/.codex/sessions` files from the past day and if there have been any issues using particular skills, update the skills to be more helpful. Personal skills only, no repo skills. If there’s anything we’ve been doing often and struggle with that we should save as a skill to speed up future work, let’s do it. Definitely don't feel like you need to update any- only if there's a good reason! Let me know if you make any.

Stay up-to-date with your project
Look at the latest remote origin/master or origin/main . Then produce an exec briefing for the last 24 hours of commits that touch <DIRECTORY> Formatting + structure: - Use rich Markdown (H1 workstream sections, italics for the subtitle, horizontal rules as needed). - Preamble can read something like “Here’s the last 24h brief for <directory>:” - Subtitle should read: “Narrative walkthrough with owners; grouped by workstream.” - Group by workstream rather than listing each commit. Workstream titles should be H1. - Write a short narrative per workstream that explains the changes in plain language. - Use bullet points and bolding when it makes things more readable - Feel free to make bullets per person, but bold their name Content requirements: - Include PR links inline (e.g., [ #123 ]( ... )) without a “PRs:” label. - Do NOT include commit hashes or a “Key commits” section. - It’s fine if multiple PRs appear under one workstream, but avoid per‑commit bullet lists. Scope rules: - Only include changes within the current cwd (or main checkout equivalent) - Only include the last 24h of commits. - Use `gh` to fetch PR titles and descriptions if it helps. Also feel free to pull PR reviews and comments

Combining scheduled tasks with skills to fix your own bugs
Create a new skill that tries to fix a bug introduced by your own commits by creating a new $recent-code-bugfix and store it in your personal skills .
--- name : recent-code-bugfix description : Find and fix a bug introduced by the current author within the last week in the current working directory. Use when a user wants a proactive bugfix from their recent changes, when the prompt is empty, or when asked to triage/fix issues caused by their recent commits. Root cause must map directly to the author’s own changes. --- # Recent Code Bugfix ## Overview Find a bug introduced by the current author in the last week, implement a fix, and verify it when possible. Operate in the current working directory, assume the code is local, and ensure the root cause is tied directly to the author’s own edits. ## Workflow ### 1) Establish the recent-change scope Use Git to identify the author and changed files from the last week. - Determine the author from `git config user.name` / `user.email` . If unavailable, use the current user’s name from the environment or ask once. - Use `git log --since=1.week --author=<author>` to list recent commits and files. Focus on files touched by those commits. - If the user’s prompt is empty, proceed directly with this default scope. ### 2) Find a concrete failure tied to recent changes Prioritize defects that are directly attributable to the author’s edits. - Look for recent failures (tests, lint, runtime errors) if logs or CI outputs are available locally. - If no failures are provided, run the smallest relevant verification (single test, file-level lint, or targeted repro) that touches the edited files. - Confirm the root cause is directly connected to the author’s changes, not unrelated legacy issues. If only unrelated failures are found, stop and report that no qualifying bug was detected. ### 3) Implement the fix Make a minimal fix that aligns with project conventions. - Update only the files needed to resolve the issue. - Avoid adding extra defensive checks or unrelated refactors. - Keep changes consistent with local style and tests. ### 4) Verify Attempt verification when possible. - Prefer the smallest validation step (targeted test, focused lint, or direct repro command). - If verification cannot be run, state what would be run and why it wasn’t executed. ### 5) Report Summarize the root cause, the fix, and the verification performed. Make it explicit how the root cause ties to the author’s recent changes.
Afterward, create a new scheduled task:
Check my commits from the last 24h and submit a $recent-code-bugfix.


──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
<!-- source: https://learn.chatgpt.com/docs/long-running-work -->
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

For work that may take many steps, give ChatGPT a clear outcome, constraints,
and definition of done. Keep related work in the same chat so
ChatGPT can use the same context to choose the next step and decide when the
work is complete.
In the ChatGPT desktop app, enter /goal to start Goal mode. The progress row
lets you pause, resume, edit, or clear the goal while ChatGPT works.
For hosted long-running work in ChatGPT web, use Work mode and put the
outcome, constraints, and review criteria directly in your prompt.
Continue in the same web chat to add context, change constraints, or
ask for a status update. Use separate chats when independent tasks can run in
parallel, and avoid giving two tasks write access to the same connected source.
For related work, keep the chats and source files together in a project .
In an interactive Codex CLI session, enter /goal to start Goal mode. Continue
the same session to steer the work or ask for a status update.
In the IDE extension chat, enter /goal to start Goal mode for the open
workspace. Continue the same chat to steer the task while it runs.

Start a goal
Type /goal in the ChatGPT desktop app, Codex CLI, or the IDE extension. The
goal text becomes both the first prompt and the completion criteria for the
task.
If the outcome is still unclear, start with /plan . Ask ChatGPT to interview you,
identify constraints, and turn the result into a goal with measurable success
criteria. Then start the refined goal with /goal .

Define what done means
Write a goal that lets ChatGPT verify its own progress. Include three things when
they apply:
Goal element What to include
Outcome Describe the result you want, not only the activity ChatGPT should perform.
Constraints Name required tools, boundaries, compatibility needs, or approaches to avoid.
Verification Add tests, measurements, or review criteria that prove the work is complete.
For example:
Migrate this codebase from JavaScript to TypeScript. Preserve existing behavior, compile in strict mode without explicit `any` types, and make the full test suite pass.

Steer a running goal
In the ChatGPT desktop app, the goal progress row appears above the composer. Use it to
pause or resume work, edit the goal, or clear it. You can also send follow-up
messages while the goal runs to add context or adjust constraints.
Use a side chat when you want a status recap or an explanation without
interrupting the main chat. Pause the goal before you expect to lose
connectivity, then resume it when you’re ready for ChatGPT to continue.

Steer running work
Continue in the same chat to add context, adjust constraints, or ask
for a status recap. Start a separate chat when another task can run
independently.

Steer a running goal
Send a follow-up message in the same interactive session to add context or
adjust constraints. Ask for a status recap when you want Codex to summarize
progress before it continues.

Steer a running goal
Continue in the same IDE chat to add context, adjust constraints, or ask for a
status recap. Keep the workspace available while the goal is running.
Starting a goal doesn’t grant ChatGPT broader access. It keeps the same sandbox and approval policy and pauses when it
needs a decision. With automatic approval
reviews , a separate reviewer can
evaluate eligible requests without expanding those boundaries.

Run goals in parallel
Each chat keeps its own context, messages, results, and goal. Run chats
concurrently, but avoid letting two chats change the same files. Use worktrees to give parallel coding chats separate
checkouts.
For local work, turn on Prevent sleep while running in settings so your Mac
stays awake. Use Pets or system
notifications to see when a chat needs input
or is ready for review.

Related docs

- Projects and chats

- Goal mode and prompting

- Git worktrees

Related docs

- Projects and chats

- Scheduled tasks

- Sandbox and permissions


──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
<!-- source: https://learn.chatgpt.com/docs/browser -->
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Browser isn’t available in Codex CLI or the Codex IDE extension. Open the
ChatGPT desktop app to use the built-in browser.
Browser lets ChatGPT open websites, gather current information, and take action
while you stay in control. Use it to compare options, complete a multi-step task
on a website, or review a page you’re building.
Browser is available in ChatGPT on the web and in the ChatGPT desktop app.
Treat page content as untrusted context. Review the site and proposed action
before sharing sensitive information or allowing ChatGPT to act.
The built-in browser in the ChatGPT desktop app gives you and ChatGPT a shared
view of websites and local web apps inside a chat. Use it to preview a page,
leave visual feedback, or let ChatGPT interact with a site on your behalf.
The built-in browser uses a browser profile that is separate from your regular
browser. It doesn’t automatically share your existing tabs or browser session.
You can sign in directly when a task requires an account. Open Settings >
Browser to manage browser data and any profile-import features available on
your device.
Browser downloads go to your system Downloads folder by default. In Settings >
Browser , you can choose another download location, reset it to the system
default, or turn on Ask where to save downloads .
Use the Chrome extension instead when ChatGPT needs
to work in an existing Chrome tab or use your regular Chrome profile.
Open the built-in browser from the toolbar, by clicking a URL, by navigating
manually, or by pressing Cmd + Shift + B ( Ctrl + Shift + B on Windows).

Computer Use in the browser
In the desktop app, Computer Use lets ChatGPT in Work mode or Codex operate the
built-in browser directly. The selected experience can open pages, click, type,
inspect rendered state, take screenshots, and verify the result of its work in
the page.
Select ChatGPT and switch to Work mode, or select Codex. Open the Plugins
Directory and install Browser . Then ask ChatGPT or Codex to use the browser
in your task, or reference it directly with @Browser .
For example:
Use the browser to open http://localhost:3000/settings, reproduce the layout bug, and fix only the overflowing controls.
ChatGPT asks before it uses a website unless you have already allowed that
site. Manage allowed and blocked sites in Settings > Browser . ChatGPT also
asks for confirmation before sensitive actions such as submitting information,
making a purchase, changing permissions, or deleting data. ChatGPT can’t
automate file uploads in the built-in browser.
Instructions on a page can be misleading or malicious. A website permission
lets ChatGPT interact with that site; it doesn’t make the site’s content
trustworthy or approve every action.

Preview a page

- Start your app’s development server in the integrated terminal or with a local environment action .

- Open the local route, file-backed page, or public page by clicking a URL or
navigating manually in the browser.

- Review the rendered state alongside the code diff.

- Leave browser comments on the elements or areas that need changes.

- Ask ChatGPT to address the comments and keep the scope narrow.
For example:
I left comments on the pricing page in the built-in browser. Address the mobile layout issues and keep the card structure unchanged.

Comment on the page
When a bug is visible only in the rendered page, use browser comments to give
ChatGPT precise feedback.

- Turn on Annotation mode .

- Click an element, or drag to select an area.

- Write and save your comment.

- Send a message in the chat asking ChatGPT to address the comments.
Comments work best when you name the problem and the result you want:
This button overflows on mobile. Keep the label on one line if it fits, otherwise wrap it without changing the card height.
This tooltip covers the data point under the cursor. Reposition the tooltip so it stays inside the chart bounds.

Styling feedback
When you add an annotation to a section on the page, select Adjust next to
the text input to give ChatGPT more granular style feedback. You can change
values such as font, text, spacing, and color, preview the result on the page,
and then send the annotation with a clearer target.

Keep browser tasks scoped
Keep each browser task small enough to review in one pass.

- Name the page, route, or URL.

- Name the state you care about, such as loading, empty, error, or success.

- Leave comments on the exact elements or areas that need changes.

- Review the page again after ChatGPT finishes.

- Ask ChatGPT to start or check the development server before it opens a local
page.
For repository changes, use the review pane to
inspect the changes and leave comments.

Developer mode
Developer mode works with Computer Use in Chrome and the built-in browser. It
gives ChatGPT controlled access to the Chrome DevTools Protocol (CDP). Use it to
profile JavaScript, inspect console output and network traffic, examine the DOM
and applied styles, or diagnose an issue in the live browser.
To enable it, open Settings > Browser and,
under Developer mode , turn on Enable full CDP access . If your
organization has disabled this setting, you can’t enable it locally. Admins can
set browser_use_full_cdp_access = false under [features] in requirements.toml to disable full CDP access and prevent users from enabling the corresponding
setting in the ChatGPT desktop app.
Full CDP access can expose sensitive browser internals. ChatGPT asks for
explicit approval before it uses full CDP to inspect a website. Review the
site, task, and requested access before approving it.
Use @Browser for the built-in browser. To use Developer mode in Chrome, set up the Chrome extension and invoke @Chrome .
For example:
This app is slow. Use @Browser to capture a performance trace and inspect network traffic, then identify the bottleneck.
In Work mode in ChatGPT on the web, ChatGPT can use a cloud-operated browser to
research and interact with public websites. It runs separately from the
browser on your device, so you can delegate web tasks without giving ChatGPT
access to your open tabs or personal browser history.

Start browser work

- Select ChatGPT , switch to Work at the top of the new chat page above the composer, and describe the result you want. Include relevant
websites or constraints when they matter.

- If ChatGPT needs a website, review the site-access request before allowing
it.

- Follow the browser’s progress in the chat. Open Cloud browser to inspect
the page screenshots and replay.

- Review the result and any sources before using the information.
For example:
Compare the publicly listed prices and cancellation terms for these three venues. Return a table with links to each source and flag anything that needs a phone call to confirm.
Other useful browser tasks include checking public inventory or appointment
times, gathering details from an interactive site, and comparing options whose
information is spread across several pages.

Website permissions and confirmations
ChatGPT asks before accessing a new website by default. The permission applies
to the site shown in the request, so check the hostname before allowing it.
In ChatGPT settings, open Cloud browser to manage website permissions. You
can choose Always ask , Auto approve , or Always allow , and you can
allow or block individual sites. Auto approve lets ChatGPT approve requests
after its risk checks; Always allow removes that review step for website
access. Use the least-permissive setting that works for your task.
A website permission doesn’t approve every action. ChatGPT may ask separately
for permission before performing consequential actions.

Browser data
The cloud-operated browser keeps its cookies and browser data separate from the
browser on your device. Clearing cloud browser data doesn’t clear cookies from
your device. To remove its cookies, open Cloud browser in ChatGPT settings,
select Browser data , and choose Clear all .
Don’t rely on open pages or browser history being available in a later chat.
Include the important sites and context when you start new work.

Limitations

- The browser supports public, signed-out websites. It can’t sign in to an
account, ask for credentials, or use the signed-in session from your browser.

- Some sites block automated browsers or require a CAPTCHA. ChatGPT may not be
able to complete a task on those sites.

- The browser is separate from the browser on your device. It can’t use your
open tabs, extensions, saved passwords, or local browser history.

- Availability can depend on your plan, workspace settings, and rollout. It is
available in all regions on paid plans other than Free and Go. Enterprise
admins must enable it for their workspace.
During rollout, the browser might not appear immediately even when your plan
supports it.


──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
<!-- source: https://learn.chatgpt.com/docs/computer-use -->
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

In supported regions, Computer Use in the ChatGPT desktop app is available on
macOS and Windows in Work mode and Codex. Install the Computer Use plugin. On
macOS, grant Screen Recording and Accessibility permissions when prompted.
With Computer Use, ChatGPT can see and operate graphical user interfaces on macOS
or Windows. Use it for tasks where command-line tools or structured integrations
aren’t enough, such as checking a desktop app, using a browser, changing app
settings, working with a data source that isn’t available as a plugin, or
reproducing a bug that only happens in a graphical user interface.
Because Computer Use can affect app and system state outside your project
workspace, use it for scoped tasks and review permission prompts before
continuing.

Set up Computer Use
In the ChatGPT desktop app, select ChatGPT and switch to Work mode, or select
Codex. Open Plugins > Computer
Use and select Install plugin if prompted. If ChatGPT shows Enable ,
select it. Turn on the Computer Use server and skill toggles, then select Try
now to start.

Computer Use
Control Mac apps from Codex
Try now

MCP servers 1
Computer-use

Skills 1
Computer Use
Control local Mac apps through Computer Use for tasks that require reading or operating app UI
Then open Settings > Computer use to review app access. Connected browser
controls show a Manage action. Apps you approve for future tasks appear in
the Always-allowed apps section.

Computer use
Manage how ChatGPT uses other applications on your computer

Control
Any App
Let ChatGPT control apps on your computer
Google Chrome
Connected to browser extension for additional control
Manage
Microsoft Excel
Let ChatGPT use Microsoft Excel add-in for additional control
Microsoft PowerPoint
Let ChatGPT use Microsoft PowerPoint add-in for additional control

Always-allowed apps
Calculator
On Windows, keep the target app visible on the active desktop while the task
runs. On macOS, grant Screen Recording and Accessibility permissions when
prompted so ChatGPT can see and interact with the target app.
On macOS, grant:

- Screen Recording permission so ChatGPT can see the target app.

- Accessibility permission so ChatGPT can click, type, and navigate.

When to use Computer Use
Choose Computer Use when the task depends on a graphical user interface that’s
hard to verify through files or command output alone.
Good fits include:

- Testing a macOS app, Windows app, iOS simulator flow, or another desktop app
that ChatGPT is building.

- Performing a task that requires your web browser.

- Reproducing a bug that only appears in a graphical interface.

- Changing app settings that require clicking through a UI.

- Inspecting information in an app or data source that isn’t available through a
plugin.

- On macOS, running a scoped task in the background while you keep working
elsewhere.

- Executing a workflow that spans more than one app.
For web apps you are building locally, use the built-in browser first.

Windows foreground use
On Windows, Computer Use runs on the active desktop. It can’t operate in the
background while you keep using the same Windows session, so expect ChatGPT to
move the pointer, type, and take over the foreground while the task runs.
For Windows tasks that should continue while you step away, keep the Windows
device unlocked and connected to the internet. Use remote control from your phone to check progress
or send follow-up instructions, or run the ChatGPT desktop app inside a Windows virtual
machine so Computer Use takes over the VM instead of your main desktop.

Start a Computer Use task
Mention @Computer or @AppName in your prompt, or ask ChatGPT to use Computer
Use. Describe the exact app, window, or flow ChatGPT should operate.
Open the app with Computer Use, reproduce the onboarding bug, and fix the smallest code path that causes it. After each change, run the same UI flow again.
Open @Chrome and verify the checkout page still works after the latest changes.
If the target app exposes a dedicated plugin or MCP server, prefer that
structured integration for data access and repeatable operations. Choose
Computer Use when ChatGPT needs to inspect or operate the app visually.

Permissions and approvals
System permissions for Computer Use are separate from app approvals in ChatGPT.
On macOS, Screen Recording and Accessibility permissions let ChatGPT see and
operate apps. App approvals determine which apps you allow ChatGPT to use. File
reads, file edits, and shell commands still follow the sandbox and approval
settings for the task.
With Computer Use, ChatGPT can see and take action only in the apps you allow.
During a task, ChatGPT asks for your permission before it can use an app on your
computer. You can choose Always allow so ChatGPT can use that app in the future
without asking again. You can remove apps from the Always allow list in the Computer Use section of the ChatGPT desktop app settings.
ChatGPT may also ask for permission before taking sensitive or disruptive actions.
If ChatGPT can’t see or control an app, open System Settings > Privacy &
Security and check Screen Recording and Accessibility for Codex
Computer Use on macOS. On Windows, make sure the target app is visible in the
active desktop session.
Configure Windows app policy
On Windows, Computer Use stores persistent app decisions in $CODEX_HOME/config.toml . List the apps that Computer Use can open without
prompting:
[ computer_use . windows ] always_allowed_app_ids = [ "mspaint.exe" ]
Use the app identifier that Windows Computer Use reports, such as an executable
name for a desktop app or an app user model ID for a packaged app. ChatGPT
prompts for apps that aren’t in the list. To revoke a saved decision, remove
the app from Settings > Computer Use > Always allow .
This table stores local Computer Use decisions. It’s separate from the
admin-enforced requirements.toml , where administrators can disable Computer
Use with [features].computer_use = false . Older $CODEX_HOME/computer-use/config.toml allow-list entries are migrated into the
current setting; its denied list isn’t part of the current policy schema.

Locked use
Locked use is for macOS. On Windows, Computer Use works in the foreground.
Locked use lets ChatGPT use Computer Use after your Mac locks, but only after
you enable it. Use it when a ChatGPT task needs to use desktop apps from a
connected device after the Mac locks.
When you enable locked use, ChatGPT installs an Apple authorization plug-in that participates in the macOS unlock flow.
Locked use is intentionally narrow. It’s not a general-purpose remote-unlock
path for your Mac, and it doesn’t let other apps or local processes unlock the
computer.
To use locked use:

- Open Settings > Computer Use in the app.

- Enable locked use.

- Start a task that uses Computer Use from a connected device after your Mac’s
screen has locked.
When a ChatGPT task accesses an app via Computer Use after your Mac locks, ChatGPT
temporarily unlocks the Mac while blocking local use and preserving the locked
screen protections. Before unlocking, ChatGPT checks whether the unlock attempt is
for an active, trusted Computer Use turn. Outside that short-lived window, ChatGPT
denies the unlock and asks you to unlock manually if needed.
Locked use includes safeguards:

- The authorization window is short-lived and scoped to the current unlock
attempt.

- Automatic unlock is available only to ChatGPT during active Computer Use turns.

- ChatGPT covers every display while the desktop is temporarily unlocked.

- If ChatGPT detects local keyboard or pointer input, it relocks the Mac and
pauses automatic unlock until you unlock it manually.

Safety guidance
With Computer Use, ChatGPT can view screen content, take screenshots, and interact
with windows, menus, keyboard input, and clipboard state in the target app.
Treat visible app content, browser pages, screenshots, and files opened in the
target app as context ChatGPT may process while the task runs.
Keep tasks narrow and stay present for sensitive flows:

- Give ChatGPT one clear target app or flow at a time.

- You can stop the task or take over your computer at any time.

- Keep sensitive apps closed unless they’re required for the task.

- On Windows, expect ChatGPT to take over foreground input while it works; use a
secondary device, a VM, or stop the task before using that desktop yourself.

- Avoid tasks that require secrets unless you’re present and can approve each
step.

- Review app permission prompts before allowing ChatGPT to use an app.

- Use Always allow only for apps you trust ChatGPT to use automatically in
future tasks.

- Stay present for account, security, privacy, network, payment, or
credential-related settings.

- Cancel the task if ChatGPT starts interacting with the wrong window.
If ChatGPT uses your browser, it can interact with pages where you’re already
signed in. Review website actions as if you were taking them yourself: web pages
can contain malicious or misleading content, and sites may treat approved clicks,
form submissions, and signed-in actions as coming from your account. To keep
using your browser while ChatGPT works, ask ChatGPT to use a different browser.
The feature can’t automate terminal apps or ChatGPT itself, since automating them
could bypass ChatGPT security policies. It also can’t authenticate as an
administrator or approve security and privacy permission prompts on your
computer.
File edits and shell commands still follow ChatGPT approval and sandbox settings
where applicable. Changes made through desktop apps may not appear in the review
pane until they’re saved to disk and tracked by the project. Your ChatGPT data
controls apply to content processed through ChatGPT, including screenshots taken
by Computer Use.


──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
<!-- source: https://learn.chatgpt.com/docs/artifacts-viewer -->
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

When a task produces a file, give ChatGPT the source data, expected file type,
structure, and review criteria that matter for the task. The preview and review
tools depend on the surface you use.
The ChatGPT desktop app previews generated documents, presentations,
spreadsheets, and PDF files alongside the chat. Use annotations to point at a
specific part of a preview and request a focused revision.
In ChatGPT web, attach source files or ask ChatGPT in Work mode to create a document,
presentation, spreadsheet, or PDF. Review the generated file in the
chat, download it when needed, and give targeted feedback for the next
version.
Codex CLI can create and edit files in the working directory, but it doesn’t
include a visual file preview or annotation interface. Ask Codex to report each
output path and the checks it ran.
The IDE extension can create and edit files in the workspace. Review text and
code files in the editor, and open documents, presentations, spreadsheets, or
PDF files in a compatible viewer.

Create files for review
For spreadsheets and presentations, describe the sheets, columns, charts,
slide sections, and checks you expect. Ask ChatGPT to explain where it saved the
output and how it checked the result.

Refine files with annotations
Annotations let you point to a specific part of a file and tell ChatGPT
what to change. The same annotation workflow available for code, Markdown
files, and websites also works with documents, spreadsheets, and
presentations.
For example, you can:

- Select a navigation bar on a website and ask ChatGPT to change its font.

- Highlight a claim in an investment thesis and ask for its source.

- Mark a chart on a slide and request a clearer label.
ChatGPT uses the selected area as context for your request, so you can refine
the file without starting over or changing the parts you already like.
Annotations are particularly useful after the first draft, when the work needs
review and iteration.

Review and refine files on the web
Open or download the generated file to review it in the appropriate viewer.
When you request a revision, name the page, slide, sheet, table, or passage that
needs attention and describe what should stay unchanged. Ask ChatGPT to report
the new file name and the checks it performed before you download the next
version.

Review and refine files
Use the chat sidebar while a task runs. It can surface the agent’s plan,
sources, generated files, and chat summary so you can steer the work,
inspect generated files, and request another pass.
Ask ChatGPT to explain where it saved each file and how it verified the
result. Use the preview to inspect the output, then give focused feedback about
the structure, data, layout, or validation that needs another pass.

Related docs

- Image generation


──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
<!-- source: https://learn.chatgpt.com/docs/code-review -->
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Use ChatGPT or Codex to inspect code changes before you commit or push them.

Start a review
In Work mode, upload the code you want reviewed or make it available through
an installed source plugin . In your prompt, identify the pull
request, branch, commit, files, and review criteria.

Review in the app
Open the review pane to understand what changed, give line-specific feedback,
and decide what to stage, revert, commit, or push.
To ask Codex to review the changes, type /review in the composer. Choose Review against a base branch or Review uncommitted changes . Codex reports
prioritized findings without changing your working tree.
The review pane requires a project inside a Git repository. If your project
isn’t a Git repository yet, the app prompts you to create one.
Type /review to open the CLI review presets. Codex starts a dedicated reviewer
that reads the selected diff and reports prioritized, actionable findings
without changing your working tree.
Type /review in the IDE extension composer. Choose Review against a base
branch or Review uncommitted changes . Codex reports prioritized findings
without changing your working tree.
The /review command appears only when the open project is inside a Git
repository.

Choose a review scope
Name the pull request, branch, commit, or files to inspect in your prompt. To
review local files that aren’t available through an installed source plugin,
upload them to the chat.

What changes it shows
The review pane reflects the state of your Git repository, not just what Codex
edited. It includes changes made by Codex, changes you made yourself, and any
other uncommitted changes in the repository.
By default, the review pane shows Unstaged changes. Use Staged for the
Git index, Commit for a selected commit, Branch for the diff against your
base branch, or Last turn for the most recent assistant turn.
Choose one of these /review scopes:

- Review against a base branch finds the merge base and reviews your branch diff.

- Review uncommitted changes includes staged, unstaged, and untracked files.

- Review a commit reviews the exact change set for a selected commit.

- Custom review instructions focuses the review on criteria you provide.
Choose one of these /review scopes:

- Review against a base branch compares your current branch with a branch you select.

- Review uncommitted changes reviews the changes in your working tree.

Work with review results
Review findings appear in the web chat. Ask for evidence, request a
narrower follow-up review, or ask ChatGPT to prepare revised files.

Code review results
Review findings appear as inline comments in the review pane.
Reviews run in the current chat by default. Under Settings > General > Code review , choose Detached to start a separate review chat. See developer settings .
The review appears as a turn in the transcript. Set review_model in config.toml when you want reviews to use a different model from the current
session.
By default, the review runs in the current chat. Set chatgpt.reviewDelivery to detached when you want /review to start a separate review chat. See the IDE extension settings reference .
If you ask ChatGPT to prepare revised files, the tools and workspace
permissions available to the chat still apply.
If you ask Codex to apply the fixes it finds, your normal sandbox and approval
settings apply.

Navigating the review pane

- Clicking a file name typically opens that file in your chosen editor. You
can choose the default editor in developer settings .

- Clicking the file name background expands or collapses the diff.

- Clicking a single line while holding Cmd pressed opens the line in your chosen editor.

- If you’re happy with a change, you can stage it or revert changes you don’t want.

Inline comments for feedback
Inline comments let you attach feedback directly to specific lines in the diff.
This is often the fastest way to guide Codex to the right fix.
To leave an inline comment:

- Open the review pane.

- Hover over the line you want to comment on.

- Select the + button that appears.

- Write your feedback and submit it.

- After you finish leaving feedback, send a message back to the chat.
Because comments are line-specific, Codex can respond more precisely than with
a general instruction.
Codex treats inline comments as review guidance. After leaving comments, send a
follow-up message that makes your intent explicit, for example, “Address the
inline comments and keep the scope minimal.”

Pull request reviews
When Codex has GitHub access for your repository and the current project is on
the pull request branch, the ChatGPT desktop app can help you work through pull
request feedback without leaving the app. The sidebar shows pull request
context and feedback from reviewers, and the review pane shows comments
alongside the diff so you can ask Codex to address issues in the same chat.
Install the GitHub CLI ( gh ) and authenticate it with gh auth login so Codex
can load pull request context, review comments, and changed files. If gh is
missing or unauthenticated, pull request details may not appear in the sidebar
or review pane.
Use this flow when you want to keep the full fix loop in one place:

- Open the review pane on the pull request branch.

- Review the pull request context, comments, and changed files.

- Ask Codex to fix the specific comments you want handled.

- Inspect the resulting diff in the review pane.

- Stage, commit, and push the changes to the pull request branch when you’re ready.
For GitHub-triggered reviews, see Use Codex in GitHub .

Staging and reverting files
The review pane includes Git actions so you can shape the diff before you
commit.
You can stage, unstage, or revert changes at these levels:

- Entire diff : Use the action buttons in the review header, such as Stage all or Revert all .

- Per file : Stage, unstage, or revert an individual file.

- Per hunk : Stage, unstage, or revert a single hunk.
Use staging when you want to accept part of the work, and revert when you want
to discard it.

Staged and unstaged states
Git can represent both staged and unstaged changes in the same file. When that
happens, the pane can show the same file in both views. That’s normal Git
behavior.


──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
<!-- source: https://learn.chatgpt.com/docs/sandboxing -->
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

The sandbox is the boundary that lets the agent act autonomously without giving it
unrestricted access to your machine. When a local chat runs commands in the ChatGPT desktop app , Codex CLI , or IDE extension , those commands run inside a
constrained environment instead of running with full access by default.
That environment defines what the agent can do on its own, such as which files it
can modify and whether commands can use the network. When a task stays inside
those boundaries, the agent can keep moving without stopping for confirmation. When
it needs to go beyond them, the approval flow takes over.
Sandboxing and approvals are different controls that work together. The
sandbox defines technical boundaries. The approval policy decides when the
agent must stop and ask before crossing them.

What the sandbox does
The sandbox applies to spawned commands, not just to built-in file
operations. If the agent runs tools like git , package managers, or test runners,
those commands inherit the same sandbox boundaries.
Codex uses platform-native enforcement on each OS. The implementation differs
between macOS, Linux, WSL2, and native Windows, but the idea is the same across
surfaces: give the agent a bounded place to work so routine tasks can run
autonomously inside clear limits.

Why it matters
The sandbox reduces approval fatigue. Instead of asking you to confirm every
low-risk command, the agent can read files, make edits, and run routine project
commands within the boundary you already approved.
It also gives you a clearer trust model for agentic work. You aren’t just
trusting the agent’s intentions; you are trusting that the agent is operating
inside enforced limits. That makes it easier to let the agent work independently
while still knowing when it will stop and ask for help.

Getting started
The default permissions mode applies sandboxing automatically.

Prerequisites
On macOS , sandboxing works out of the box using the built-in Seatbelt
framework.
On Windows , Codex uses the native Windows
sandbox when you run in PowerShell and the
Linux sandbox implementation when you run in WSL2.
On Linux and WSL2 , install bubblewrap with your package manager first:
Choose an option
sudo apt install bubblewrap
sudo dnf install bubblewrap
Codex uses the first bwrap executable it finds on PATH . If no bwrap executable is available, Codex falls back to a bundled helper, but that helper
requires support for unprivileged user namespace creation. Installing the
distribution package that provides bwrap keeps this setup reliable.
Codex surfaces a startup warning when bwrap is missing or when the helper
can’t create the needed user namespace. On distributions that restrict this
AppArmor setting, prefer loading the bwrap AppArmor profile so bwrap can
keep working without disabling the restriction globally.
Ubuntu AppArmor note: On Ubuntu 25.04, installing bubblewrap from
Ubuntu’s package repository should work without extra AppArmor setup. The bwrap-userns-restrict profile ships in the apparmor package at /etc/apparmor.d/bwrap-userns-restrict .
On Ubuntu 24.04, Codex may still warn that it can’t create the needed user
namespace after bubblewrap is installed. Copy and load the extra profile:
sudo apt update sudo apt install apparmor-profiles apparmor-utils sudo install -m 0644 \ /usr/share/apparmor/extra-profiles/bwrap-userns-restrict \ /etc/apparmor.d/bwrap-userns-restrict sudo apparmor_parser -r /etc/apparmor.d/bwrap-userns-restrict
apparmor_parser -r loads the profile into the kernel without a reboot. You
can also reload all AppArmor profiles:
sudo systemctl reload apparmor.service
If that profile is unavailable or does not resolve the issue, you can disable
the AppArmor unprivileged user namespace restriction with:
sudo sysctl -w kernel.apparmor_restrict_unprivileged_userns= 0

How permissions work
Use the permissions control for your surface to change how Codex handles local
actions.
Approvals determine when Codex pauses before an action, while the sandbox
determines which files and network resources commands can access. When an
approval offers different scopes, such as approving once or for the session,
choose the narrowest scope that lets the task continue. Keep the project
boundary as the default; use separate projects or worktrees instead of
broadening access across unrelated repositories.
Work mode in ChatGPT runs code and shell commands in a managed, isolated environment.
Workspace policy and tool-specific controls determine which capabilities are
available. When the setting is available, use Settings > Data controls > Work
network access to manage network access for code and shell commands. Turn on Allow public internet access to let those commands reach the public
internet. When it’s off, commands can reach only required hostnames from a
managed allowlist.
Web search, plugins, and the remote browser have separate controls.
Changes take effect after the current code or shell run finishes and Work
refreshes its execution environment. ChatGPT web doesn’t expose the local
Codex sandbox or approval-mode selector.
In the ChatGPT desktop app, use the permissions control beneath the composer.
Depending on your configuration, the menu can include Ask for approval , Approve for me for eligible approval requests, Full access , and named or
custom permissions profiles.
In the CLI, enter /permissions to open the permissions picker and change the active permissions profile.
In the IDE extension, use the permissions control beneath the composer.
Depending on your configuration, the menu can include Ask for approval , Approve for me for eligible approval requests, Full access , and named or
custom permissions profiles.

Configure defaults
To start with the same behavior every time, set defaults in config.toml . Config basics explains how it works, and the Configuration reference documents the exact keys for sandbox_mode , approval_policy , approvals_reviewer , and sandbox_workspace_write.writable_roots . Use those settings to decide how much
autonomy the agent gets by default, which directories it can write to, when it
should pause for approval, and who reviews eligible approval requests.
At a high level, the common sandbox modes are:

- read-only : The agent can inspect files, but it can’t edit files or run
commands without approval.

- workspace-write : The agent can read files, edit within the workspace, and run
routine local commands inside that boundary. This is the default low-friction
mode for local work.

- danger-full-access : The agent runs without sandbox restrictions. This removes
the filesystem and network boundaries and should be used only when you want
the agent to act with full access.
The common approval policies are:

- untrusted : The agent asks before running commands that aren’t in its trusted
set.

- on-request : The agent works inside the sandbox by default and asks when it
needs to go beyond that boundary.

- never : The agent doesn’t stop for approval prompts.
When approvals are interactive, you can also choose who reviews them with approvals_reviewer :

- user : approval prompts surface to the user. This is the default.

- auto_review : eligible approval prompts go to a reviewer agent (see automatic review ).
Full access means using sandbox_mode = "danger-full-access" together with approval_policy = "never" . By contrast, the lower-risk local automation
preset is sandbox_mode = "workspace-write" together with approval_policy = "on-request" , or the matching CLI flags --sandbox workspace-write --ask-for-approval on-request . You can then keep approvals_reviewer = "user" for manual approvals or set approvals_reviewer = "auto_review" for automatic approval review.
If you need the agent to work across more than one directory, writable roots let
you extend the places it can modify without removing the sandbox entirely. If
you need a broader or narrower trust boundary, adjust the default sandbox mode
and approval policy instead of relying on one-off exceptions.
When a workflow needs a specific exception, use rules . Rules
let you allow, prompt, or forbid command prefixes outside the sandbox, which is
often a better fit than broadly expanding access. For IDE-specific settings
entry points, see Codex IDE extension settings .
Automatic review, when available, doesn’t change the sandbox boundary. It’s
one possible approvals_reviewer for approval requests at that boundary, such
as sandbox escalations, blocked network access, or side-effecting tool calls
that still need approval. Actions already allowed inside the sandbox run
without extra review. For the reviewer lifecycle, trigger types, denial
semantics, and configuration details, see automatic review .
Platform details live in the platform-specific docs. For native Windows setup,
behavior, and troubleshooting, see Windows . For admin
requirements and organization-level constraints on sandboxing and approvals, see Agent approvals & security .


──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
<!-- source: https://learn.chatgpt.com/docs/agent-approvals-security -->
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Codex helps protect your code and data and reduces the risk of misuse.
This page covers how to operate Codex safely, including sandboxing, approvals,
and network access. If you are looking for Codex Security, the product for
scanning connected GitHub repositories, see Codex Security .
By default, the agent runs with network access turned off. Locally, Codex uses an OS-enforced sandbox that limits what it can touch (typically to the current workspace), plus an approval policy that controls when it must stop and ask you before acting.
For a high-level explanation of how sandboxing works across the ChatGPT desktop app,
Codex CLI, and IDE extension, see sandboxing .
For a broader enterprise security overview, see the Codex security white paper .

Sandbox and approvals
Codex security controls come from two layers that work together:

- Sandbox mode : What Codex can do technically (for example, where it can write and whether it can reach the network) when it executes model-generated commands.

- Approval policy : When Codex must ask you before it executes an action (for example, leaving the sandbox, using the network, or running commands outside a trusted set).
Codex uses different sandbox modes depending on where you run it:

- Codex cloud : Runs in isolated OpenAI-managed containers, preventing access to your host system or unrelated data. Uses a two-phase runtime model: setup runs before the agent phase and can access the network to install specified dependencies, then the agent phase runs offline by default unless you enable internet access for that environment. Secrets configured for cloud environments are available only during setup and are removed before the agent phase starts.

- Codex CLI / IDE extension : OS-level mechanisms enforce sandbox policies. Defaults include no network access and write permissions limited to the active workspace. You can configure the sandbox, approval policy, and network settings based on your risk tolerance.
In the Auto preset (for example, --sandbox workspace-write --ask-for-approval on-request ), Codex can read files, make edits, and run commands in the working directory automatically.
Codex asks for approval to edit files outside the workspace or to run commands that require network access. If you want to chat or plan without making changes, switch to read-only mode with the /permissions command.
Codex can also elicit approval for app (connector) tool calls that advertise side effects, even when the action isn’t a shell command or file change. Destructive app/MCP tool calls always require approval when the tool advertises a destructive annotation, even if it also advertises other hints (for example, read-only hints).

Network access Elevated Risk
For Codex cloud, see agent internet access to enable full internet access or a domain allow list.
For the ChatGPT desktop app, Codex CLI, or IDE extension, the default workspace-write sandbox mode keeps network access turned off unless you enable it in your configuration:
[ sandbox_workspace_write ] network_access = true

Network isolation
Network access is controlled through destination rules that apply to scripts,
programs, and subprocesses spawned by commands. When command network access is
already enabled, turn on the network_proxy feature to constrain that traffic
to the network policy you configure.
[ features . network_proxy ] enabled = true domains = { "api.openai.com" = "allow" , "example.com" = "deny" }
For a one-off CLI session, use the boolean shorthand when you only need the
toggle, and the table form when you also set policy options:
codex \ -c 'features.network_proxy=true' \ -c 'sandbox_workspace_write.network_access=true' codex \ -c 'features.network_proxy.enabled=true' \ -c 'features.network_proxy.domains={ "api.openai.com" = "allow", "example.com" = "deny" }' \ -c 'sandbox_workspace_write.network_access=true'
The feature changes how enabled network access is enforced; it does not grant
network access by itself. Use sandbox_workspace_write.network_access with workspace-write config to decide whether commands have network access at all:

- Network off + network_proxy on: network stays off, and the feature does nothing.

- Network on + network_proxy off: network stays on with unrestricted direct
outbound access.

- Network on + network_proxy on: network stays on, and outbound traffic is
constrained by the configured network policy.
Admin-managed experimental_network requirements are separate from the user
feature toggle. They can configure and start sandboxed networking without features.network_proxy , but they do not turn on network access when the active
sandbox keeps it off. See Managed configuration for the administrator-side requirements.toml shape.

Network policy
Domain rules are allowlist-first:

- Exact hosts match only themselves.

- *.example.com matches subdomains such as api.example.com , but not example.com .

- **.example.com matches both the apex and subdomains.

- A global * allow rule matches any public host that is not denied. Treat * as broad network access and prefer scoped rules when you can.

- deny always wins over allow , and global * is only valid for allow rules.

Local and private destinations
By default, allow_local_binding = false blocks loopback, link-local, and
private destinations:

- Specific exceptions: add an exact local IP literal or localhost allow rule
when a command needs one local target.

- Broader access: set allow_local_binding = true only when you intentionally
want wider local/private reach.

- Wildcards: wildcard rules do not count as explicit local exceptions.

- Resolved addresses: hostnames that resolve to local/private IPs stay blocked
even if they match the allowlist.

DNS rebinding protections
Before allowing a hostname, Codex performs a best-effort DNS and IP
classification check:

- Lookups that fail or time out are blocked.

- Hostnames that resolve to non-public addresses are blocked.

- The check reduces DNS rebinding risk, but it does not eliminate it. Preventing
rebinding completely would require pinning resolved IPs through the transport
layer.
If hostile DNS is in scope, enforce egress controls at a lower layer too.

Dangerous settings
Two settings deliberately widen the trust boundary:

- dangerously_allow_non_loopback_proxy = true can expose proxy listeners beyond
loopback.

- dangerously_allow_all_unix_sockets = true bypasses the Unix socket allowlist.
Use them only in tightly controlled environments. When Unix socket proxying is
enabled, listeners stay loopback-only even if non-loopback binding was requested,
so sandboxed networking does not become a remote bridge into local daemons.
network_proxy is off by default. When you enable it:
Setting Default Behavior
enabled false Starts sandboxed networking only when command network access is already on.
domains unset Uses allowlist behavior, so no external destinations are allowed until you add allow rules. Supports exact hosts, scoped wildcards, and global * allow rules; deny always wins.
unix_sockets unset No Unix socket destinations are allowed until you add explicit allow rules.
allow_local_binding false Blocks local and private-network destinations unless you add an exact local IP literal or localhost allow rule, or explicitly opt into broader local/private access.
enable_socks5 true Exposes SOCKS5 support when policy allows it.
enable_socks5_udp true Allows UDP over SOCKS5 when SOCKS5 is available.
allow_upstream_proxy true Lets sandboxed networking honor an upstream proxy from the environment.
dangerously_allow_non_loopback_proxy false Keeps listener endpoints on loopback unless you deliberately expose them beyond localhost.
dangerously_allow_all_unix_sockets false Keeps Unix socket access allowlist-based unless you deliberately bypass that protection.
You can also control the web search tool without granting full network access to spawned commands. Codex defaults to using a web search cache to access results. The cache is an OpenAI-maintained index of web results, so cached mode returns pre-indexed results instead of fetching live pages. This reduces exposure to prompt injection from arbitrary live content, but you should still treat web results as untrusted. If you are using --yolo or another full access sandbox setting , web search defaults to live results. Use --search or set web_search = "live" to allow live browsing, or set it to "disabled" to turn the tool off:
web_search = "cached" # default # web_search = "disabled" # web_search = "live" # same as --search
Set web_search = "indexed" when external web access should be gated by the
search index. Use caution when enabling network access or web search in Codex.
Prompt injection can cause the agent to fetch and follow untrusted instructions.

Defaults and recommendations

- On launch, Codex detects whether the folder is version-controlled and recommends:

- Version-controlled folders: Auto (workspace write + on-request approvals)

- Non-version-controlled folders: read-only

- Depending on your setup, Codex may also start in read-only until you explicitly trust the working directory (for example, via an onboarding prompt or /permissions ).

- The workspace includes the current directory and temporary directories like /tmp . Use the /status command to see which directories are in the workspace.

- To accept the defaults, run codex .

- You can set these explicitly:

- codex --sandbox workspace-write --ask-for-approval on-request

- codex --sandbox read-only --ask-for-approval on-request

Protected paths in writable roots
In the default workspace-write sandbox policy, writable roots still include protected paths:

- <writable_root>/.git is protected as read-only whether it appears as a directory or file.

- If <writable_root>/.git is a pointer file ( gitdir: ... ), the resolved Git directory path is also protected as read-only.

- <writable_root>/.agents is protected as read-only when it exists as a directory.

- <writable_root>/.codex is protected as read-only when it exists as a directory.

- Protection is recursive, so everything under those paths is read-only.

Run without approval prompts
You can disable approval prompts with --ask-for-approval never or -a never (shorthand).
This option works with all --sandbox modes, so you still control Codex’s level of autonomy. Codex makes a best effort within the constraints you set.
If you need Codex to read files, make edits, and run commands with network access without approval prompts, use --sandbox danger-full-access (or the --dangerously-bypass-approvals-and-sandbox flag). Use caution before doing so.
For a middle ground, approval_policy = { granular = { ... } } lets you keep specific approval prompt categories interactive while automatically rejecting others. The granular policy covers sandbox approvals, execpolicy-rule prompts, MCP prompts, request_permissions prompts, and skill-script approvals.

Automatic approval reviews
By default, approval requests route to you:
approvals_reviewer = "user"
Automatic approval reviews apply when approvals are interactive, such as approval_policy = "on-request" or a granular approval policy. Set approvals_reviewer = "auto_review" to route eligible approval requests
through a reviewer agent before Codex runs the request:
approval_policy = "on-request" approvals_reviewer = "auto_review"
For the full reviewer lifecycle, trigger conditions, configuration precedence,
and failure behavior, see Auto-review .
The reviewer evaluates only actions that already need approval, such as sandbox
escalations, blocked network requests, request_permissions prompts, or
side-effecting app and MCP tool calls. Actions that stay inside the sandbox
continue without an extra review step.
The reviewer policy checks for data exfiltration, credential probing, persistent
security weakening, and destructive actions. Low-risk and medium-risk actions
can proceed when policy allows them. The policy denies critical-risk actions.
High-risk actions require enough user authorization and no matching deny rule.
Prompt-build, review-session, and parse failures fail closed. Timeouts are
surfaced separately, but the action still does not run.
The default reviewer policy is in the open-source Codex repository. Enterprises can replace its
tenant-specific section with guardian_policy_config in managed requirements.
Local [auto_review].policy text is also supported, but managed requirements
take precedence. For setup details, see Managed configuration .
In the ChatGPT desktop app, these reviews appear as automatic review items with a status
such as Reviewing, Approved, Denied, Aborted, or Timed out. They can also
include a risk level and user-authorization assessment for the reviewed
request.
Automatic review uses extra model calls, so it can add to Codex usage. Admins
can constrain it with allowed_approvals_reviewers .

Common sandbox and approval combinations
Intent Flags / config Effect
Auto (preset) no flags needed or --sandbox workspace-write --ask-for-approval on-request Codex can read files, make edits, and run commands in the workspace. Codex requires approval to edit outside the workspace or to access network.
Safe read-only browsing --sandbox read-only --ask-for-approval on-request Codex can read files and answer questions. Codex requires approval to make edits, run commands, or access network.
Read-only non-interactive (CI) --sandbox read-only --ask-for-approval never Codex can only read files; never asks for approval.
Automatically edit but ask for approval to run untrusted commands --sandbox workspace-write --ask-for-approval untrusted Codex can read and edit files but asks for approval before running untrusted commands.
Auto-review mode --sandbox workspace-write --ask-for-approval on-request -c approvals_reviewer=auto_review or approvals_reviewer = "auto_review" Same sandbox boundary as standard on-request mode, but eligible approval requests are reviewed by Auto-review instead of surfacing to the user.
Dangerous full access --dangerously-bypass-approvals-and-sandbox (alias: --yolo ) Elevated Risk No sandbox; no approvals (not recommended)
For non-interactive runs, use codex exec --sandbox workspace-write ; Codex keeps older codex exec --full-auto invocations as a deprecated compatibility path and prints a warning.
With --ask-for-approval untrusted , Codex runs only known-safe read operations automatically. Commands that can mutate state or trigger external execution paths (for example, destructive Git operations or Git output/config-override flags) require approval.

Configuration in config.toml
For the broader configuration workflow, see Config basics , Advanced Config , and the Configuration Reference .
# Always ask for approval mode approval_policy = "untrusted" sandbox_mode = "read-only" allow_login_shell = false # optional hardening: disallow login shells for shell-based tools # Optional: Allow network in workspace-write mode [ sandbox_workspace_write ] network_access = true # Optional: granular approval policy # approval_policy = { granular = { # sandbox_approval = true, # rules = true, # mcp_elicitations = true, # request_permissions = false, # skill_approval = false # } }
You can also save presets as profile files , then select them with codex --profile profile-name :
# ~/.codex/full_auto.config.toml approval_policy = "on-request" sandbox_mode = "workspace-write"
# ~/.codex/readonly_quiet.config.toml approval_policy = "never" sandbox_mode = "read-only"

Test the sandbox locally
To see what happens when a command runs under the Codex sandbox, use these Codex CLI commands:
# macOS codex sandbox macos [--permissions-profile < nam e > ] [--log-denials] [COMMAND]... # Linux codex sandbox linux [--permissions-profile < nam e > ] [COMMAND]... # Windows codex sandbox windows [--permissions-profile < nam e > ] [COMMAND]...
The sandbox command is also available as codex debug , and the platform helpers have aliases (for example codex sandbox seatbelt and codex sandbox landlock ).

OS-level sandbox
Codex enforces the sandbox differently depending on your OS:

- macOS uses Seatbelt policies and runs commands using sandbox-exec with a profile ( -p ) that corresponds to the --sandbox mode you selected. When restricted read access enables platform defaults, Codex appends a curated macOS platform policy (instead of broadly allowing /System ) to preserve common tool compatibility.

- Linux uses bwrap plus seccomp by default.

- Windows uses the Linux sandbox implementation when running in Windows Subsystem for Linux 2 (WSL2) . WSL1 was supported through Codex 0.114 ; starting in 0.115 , the Linux sandbox moved to bwrap , so WSL1 is no longer supported. When running natively on Windows, Codex uses a Windows sandbox implementation.
If you use the Codex IDE extension on Windows, it supports WSL2 directly. Set the following in your VS Code settings to keep the agent inside WSL2 whenever it’s available:
{ "chatgpt.runCodexInWindowsSubsystemForLinux" : true }
This ensures the IDE extension inherits Linux sandbox semantics for commands, approvals, and filesystem access even when the host OS is Windows. Learn more in the WSL guide .
When running natively on Windows, configure the native sandbox mode in config.toml :
[ windows ] sandbox = "unelevated" # or "elevated" # sandbox_private_desktop = true # default; set false only for compatibility
See the Windows setup guide for details.
When you run Linux in a containerized environment such as Docker, the sandbox may not work if the host or container configuration blocks the namespace, setuid bwrap , or seccomp operations that Codex needs.
In that case, configure your Docker container to provide the isolation you need, then run codex with --sandbox danger-full-access (or the --dangerously-bypass-approvals-and-sandbox flag) inside the container.

Run Codex in Dev Containers
If your host cannot run the Linux sandbox directly, or if your organization already standardizes on containerized development, run Codex with Dev Containers and let Docker provide the outer isolation boundary. This works with Visual Studio Code Dev Containers and compatible tools.
Use the Codex secure devcontainer example as a reference implementation. The example installs Codex, common development tools, bubblewrap , and firewall-based outbound controls.
Devcontainers provide substantial protection, but they do not prevent every
attack. If you run Codex with --sandbox danger-full-access or --dangerously-bypass-approvals-and-sandbox inside the container, a malicious
project can exfiltrate anything available inside the devcontainer, including
Codex credentials. Use this pattern only with trusted repositories, and
monitor Codex activity as you would in any other elevated environment.
The reference implementation includes:

- an Ubuntu 24.04 base image with Codex and common development tools installed;

- an allowlist-driven firewall profile for outbound access;

- VS Code settings and extension recommendations for reopening the workspace in a container;

- persistent mounts for command history and Codex configuration;

- bubblewrap , so Codex can still use its Linux sandbox when the container grants the needed capabilities.
To try it:

- Install Visual Studio Code and the Dev Containers extension .

- Copy the Codex example .devcontainer setup into your repository, or start from the Codex repository directly.

- In VS Code, run Dev Containers: Open Folder in Container… and select .devcontainer/devcontainer.secure.json .

- After the container starts, open a terminal and run codex .
You can also start the container from the CLI:
devcontainer up --workspace-folder . --config .devcontainer/devcontainer.secure.json
The example has three main pieces:

- .devcontainer/devcontainer.secure.json controls container settings, capabilities, mounts, environment variables, and VS Code extensions.

- .devcontainer/Dockerfile.secure defines the Ubuntu-based image and installed tools.

- .devcontainer/init-firewall.sh applies the outbound network policy.
The reference firewall is intentionally a starting point. If you depend on domain allowlisting for isolation, implement DNS rebinding and DNS refresh protections that fit your environment, such as TTL-aware refreshes or a DNS-aware firewall.
Inside the container, choose one of these modes:

- Keep Codex’s Linux sandbox enabled if the Dev Container profile grants the capabilities needed for bwrap to create the inner sandbox.

- If the container is your intended security boundary, run Codex with --sandbox danger-full-access inside the container so Codex does not try to create a second sandbox layer.

Version control
Codex works best with a version control workflow:

- Work on a feature branch and keep git status clean before delegating. This keeps Codex patches easier to isolate and revert.

- Prefer patch-based workflows (for example, git diff / git apply ) over editing tracked files directly. Commit frequently so you can roll back in small increments.

- Treat Codex suggestions like any other PR: run targeted verification, review diffs, and document decisions in commit messages for auditing.

Monitoring and telemetry
Codex supports opt-in monitoring via OpenTelemetry (OTel) to help teams audit usage, investigate issues, and meet compliance requirements without weakening local security defaults. Telemetry is off by default; enable it explicitly in your configuration.

Overview

- Codex turns off OTel export by default to keep local runs self-contained.

- When enabled, Codex emits structured log events covering chats, API requests, SSE/WebSocket stream activity, user prompts (redacted by default), tool approval decisions, and tool results.

- Codex tags exported events with service.name (originator), CLI version, and an environment label to separate dev/staging/prod traffic.

Enable OTel (opt-in)
Add an [otel] block to your Codex configuration (typically ~/.codex/config.toml ), choosing an exporter and whether to log prompt text.
[ otel ] environment = "staging" # dev | staging | prod exporter = "none" # none | otlp-http | otlp-grpc log_user_prompt = false # redact prompt text unless policy allows

- exporter = "none" leaves instrumentation active but doesn’t send data anywhere.

- To send events to your own collector, pick one of:
[ otel ] exporter = { otlp-http = { endpoint = "https://otel.example.com/v1/logs" , protocol = "binary" , headers = { "x-otlp-api-key" = "${OTLP_TOKEN}" } }}
[ otel ] exporter = { otlp-grpc = { endpoint = "https://otel.example.com:4317" , headers = { "x-otlp-meta" = "abc123" } }}
Codex batches events and flushes them on shutdown. Codex exports only telemetry produced by its OTel module.

Event categories
Representative event types include:

- codex.conversation_starts (model, reasoning settings, sandbox/approval policy)

- codex.api_request (attempt, status/success, duration, and error details)

- codex.sse_event (stream event kind, success/failure, duration, plus token counts on response.completed )

- codex.websocket_request and codex.websocket_event (request duration plus per-message kind/success/error)

- codex.user_prompt (length; content redacted unless explicitly enabled)

- codex.tool_decision (approved/denied, source: configuration vs. user)

- codex.tool_result (duration, success, output snippet)
Associated OTel metrics (counter plus duration histogram pairs) include codex.api_request , codex.sse_event , codex.websocket.request , codex.websocket.event , and codex.tool.call (with corresponding .duration_ms instruments).
For the full event catalog and configuration reference, see the Codex configuration documentation on GitHub .

Security and privacy guidance

- Keep log_user_prompt = false unless policy explicitly permits storing prompt contents. Prompts can include source code and sensitive data.

- Route telemetry only to collectors you control; apply retention limits and access controls aligned with your compliance requirements.

- Treat tool arguments and outputs as sensitive. Favor redaction at the collector or SIEM when possible.

- Review local data retention settings (for example, history.persistence / history.max_bytes ) if you don’t want Codex to save session transcripts under CODEX_HOME . See Advanced Config and Configuration Reference .

- If you run the CLI with network access turned off, OTel export can’t reach your collector. To export, allow network access in workspace-write mode for the OTel endpoint, or export from Codex cloud with the collector domain on your approved list.

- Review events periodically for approval/sandbox changes and unexpected tool executions.
OTel is optional and designed to complement, not replace, the sandbox and approval protections described above.

Managed configuration
Enterprise admins can configure Codex security settings for their workspace in Managed configuration . See that page for setup and policy details.


──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
<!-- source: https://learn.chatgpt.com/docs/reference/troubleshooting -->
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Frequently Asked Questions

Files appear in the side panel that Codex didn’t edit
If your project is inside a Git repository, the review panel automatically
shows changes based on your project’s Git state, including changes that Codex
didn’t make.
In the review pane, you can switch between staged changes and changes not yet
staged, and compare your branch with main.
If you want to see only the changes of your last Codex turn, switch the diff
pane to the Last turn view.
Learn more about how to use the review pane .

Remove a project from the sidebar
To remove a project from the sidebar, hover over the name of your project, click
the three dots and choose “Remove.” To restore it, re-add the
project using the Add new project button next to Chats or using
Cmd + O .

Find archived chats
Archived chats can be found in Settings . When you unarchive
a chat, it reappears in its original sidebar location.

Only some chats appear in the sidebar
The sidebar lets you filter chats based on the state of a project. If you’re
missing chats, select the filter icon next to Chats , then select Chronological . If you still don’t see the chat, open Settings and check Archived chats .

Code doesn’t run on a worktree
Worktrees are created in a different directory and inherit files checked into
Git by default. Depending on how you manage dependencies and tooling for your
project, you might have to run setup scripts on your worktree using a local environment or copy ignored setup files
with .worktreeinclude .
Alternatively, you can check out the changes in your regular local project. See
the worktrees documentation to learn more.

App doesn’t pick up a teammate’s shared local environment
The local environment configuration must be inside the .codex folder at the
root of your project. If you are working in a monorepo with more than one
project, make sure you open the project in the directory that contains the .codex folder.

Codex asks to access Apple Music
Depending on your task, Codex may need to navigate the file system. Certain
directories on macOS, including Music, Downloads, or Desktop, require
additional approval from the user. If Codex needs to read your home directory,
macOS prompts you to approve access to those folders.

Scheduled tasks create many worktrees
Frequent scheduled tasks can create many worktrees over time. Archive scheduled
runs you no longer need and avoid pinning runs unless you intend to keep their
worktrees.

Recover a prompt after selecting the wrong target
If you started a chat with the wrong target ( Local , Worktree , or Cloud ) by accident, you can cancel the current run and recover your previous prompt by pressing the up arrow key in the composer.

Feature is working in the Codex CLI but not in the ChatGPT desktop app
The ChatGPT desktop app and Codex CLI can include different Codex versions, so
features may reach one surface before the other. Experimental features might
also land in Codex CLI first.
To get the version of the Codex CLI on your system run:
codex --version
To get the version of Codex bundled with your ChatGPT desktop app, use the
retained Codex.app compatibility bundle path:
/Applications/Codex.app/Contents/Resources/codex --version

Feedback and logs
Type / into the message composer to provide feedback for the team. If
you trigger feedback in an existing chat, you can choose to share the
existing session along with your feedback. After submitting your feedback,
you’ll receive a session ID that you can share with the team.
To report an issue:

- Find existing issues on the Codex GitHub repo.

- Open a new GitHub issue
More logs are available in the following locations:

- App logs (macOS): ~/Library/Logs/com.openai.codex/YYYY/MM/DD

- Session transcripts: $CODEX_HOME/sessions (default: ~/.codex/sessions )

- Archived sessions: $CODEX_HOME/archived_sessions (default: ~/.codex/archived_sessions )
If you share logs, review them first to confirm they don’t contain sensitive
information.

Stuck states and recovery patterns
If a chat appears stuck:

- Check whether Codex is waiting for an approval.

- Open the terminal and run a basic command like git status .

- Start a new chat with a smaller, more focused prompt.
If you cancel worktree creation by mistake and lose your prompt, press the up
arrow key in the composer to recover it.

Terminal issues
Terminal appears stuck

- Close the terminal panel.

- Reopen it with Ctrl + ` .

- Re-run a basic command like pwd or git status .
If commands behave differently than expected, validate the current directory and
branch in the terminal first.
If it continues to be stuck, wait until your active chats are complete and restart the app.
Fonts aren’t rendering correctly
Codex uses the same font for the review pane, integrated terminal and any other code displayed inside the app. You can configure the font inside the Settings pane as Code font .
